10022212	Toxicological findings in a fatal ingestion of methamphetamine.	This paper presents the case history of a fatality caused by the complications brought about by the presence of methamphetamine and ethanol. Drug concentrations are reported from samples obtained approximately 15 min after the subject was last observed to be chewing what was then believed to be gum, 3 h after the initial toxic symptoms were displayed, 6, 11, and 22 h later. The subjects conditions deteriorated over the course of this time, and he was declared dead 33 h after the initial display of toxic symptoms. The toxicological findings and concentration levels of the reported biological specimens concurred with the expected findings in a case of methamphetamine toxicity.
10024724	Methodological issues in biomonitoring of low level exposure to benzene.	Data from a pilot study on unmetabolized benzene and trans,trans muconic acid (t,t-MA) excretion in filling station attendants and unexposed controls were used to afford methodological issues in the biomonitoring of low benzene exposures (around 0.1 ppm). Urinary concentrations of benzene and t,t-MA were measured by dynamic head-space capillary GC/FID and HPLC, respectively. The accuracy of the HPLC determination of t,t-MA was assessed in terms of inter- and intra-method reliability. The adequacy of urinary t,t-MA and benzene as biological markers of low benzene exposure was evaluated by analysing the relationship between personal exposure to benzene and biomarker excretion. Filling station attendants excreted significantly higher amounts of benzene, but not of t,t-MA, than controls. Adjusting for occupational benzene exposure, smokers excreted significantly higher amounts of t,t-MA, but not of unmetabolized benzene, than nonsmokers. A comparative analysis of the present and previously published biomonitoring surveys showed a good inter-study agreement regarding the amount of t,t-MA and unmetabolized benzene excreted (about 0.1-0.2 mg/l and 1-2 micrograms/l, respectively) per unit of exposure (0.1 ppm). For each biomarker, based on the distribution of parameters observed in the pilot study, we calculated the minimum sample size required to estimate the population mean with given confidence and precision.
10025747	EMLA cream as a topical anesthetic for the repeated mechanical debridement of venous leg ulcers: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	A granulating surface is important for skin grafting and healing of leg ulcers. Mechanical debridement to remove necrotic tissue often must be stopped before completion because of pain. Our purpose was to assess the effect of EMLA cream on the number of debridements required to obtain a clean ulcer and on pain during debridement and to determine its safety after repeated doses. In this randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 69 patients with venous leg ulcers received cream before debridement until a clean ulcer was obtained (or a maximum of 15 debridements). EMLA decreased the median number of debridements required for a clean ulcer (EMLA 11.5, placebo >15; P = .019) and decreased pain by 50% (P = .003). Plasma levels of lidocaine, prilocaine, and their main metabolites were low without any apparent accumulation. EMLA produces effective pain relief for the debridement of leg ulcers and shortens the time to a clean ulcer.
10027632	Highly sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic assay for coumarin 7-hydroxylation and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation by human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes.	A highly sensitive method for the determination of coumarin 7-hydroxylation and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation by human cytochrome P450 (P450 or CYP) enzymes was developed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The newly developed HPLC method was found to be about 100-fold more sensitive than the previous spectrofluorimetric method in detecting the metabolite 7-hydroxycoumarin (umbelliferone). With this high sensitivity, the kinetics of coumarin 7-hydroxylation and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation catalyzed by human liver microsomal and recombinant P450 enzymes were determined more precisely. With 36 different substrate concentrations in these two reactions, coumarin 7-hydroxylation was found to be catalyzed mainly by a single enzyme CYP2A6 and 7-ethoxycoumarin was oxidized by at least two enzymes CYP2E1 and CYP1A2 in human liver microsomes.
10027642	Direct assay of nonopioid analgesics and their metabolites in human urine by capillary electrophoresis and capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry.	Capillary electrophoresis (CE) was used for the analysis of nonopioid analgesics and their metabolites directly in urine samples. A simple, reliable screening method was developed that allows identification of the drug and/or its metabolites in urine after oral application of paracetamol, acetylsalicylic acid, antipyrine, ibuprofen, naproxen, ketoprofen and propyphenazone by their migration in CE and by their UV spectra recorded with a diode-array detector in a common CE-UV system with 50 mM borax pH 9.4 as separation buffer. For the CE-electrospray (ESI)-MS coupling a volatile 50 mM ammonium acetate buffer at pH 9.8 was used. In order to analyze the metabolic pattern in more detail different methods were developed for each drug. The separation of the metabolites of acetylsalicylic acid could be improved by injection of the urine sample at the cathodic side of the capillary. In order to identify antipyrine as neutral compound as well as its neutral metabolites-a micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) method was developed.
10027661	Opposite effects of lornoxicam co-administration on phenprocoumon pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics.	To investigate the effect of co-administration of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) lornoxicam on the pharmacokinetics of (R)- and (S)-phenprocoumon and their effect on factor II and VII activities. Six healthy male volunteers completed an open crossover study. Plasma concentrations of (R)- and (S)-phenprocoumon and activities of coagulation factors II and VII were measured after a single oral dose of 9 mg phenprocoumon racemate. In the second session, lornoxicam administration was started 3 days before phenprocoumon administration and continued twice daily until the last blood sample was drawn. Lornoxicam co-administration resulted in a statistically significant increase of the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of the more potent (S)-isomer of phenprocoumon from a median value of 100 (range 68-146) mg x h x 1(-1) to 124 (92-239) mg x h x 1(-1). For the (R)-isomer, the AUC increase from 96 (70-142) mg x h x 1(-1) in the absence to 108 (75-155) mg x h x 1(-1) in the presence of lornoxicam was not statistically significant. In a model-based analysis, an increase of (S)-phenprocoumon and (R)-phenprocoumon bioavailability of 14% [95% CI (9%, 19%)] and 6% (2%, 10%) and a decrease of their clearances by 15% (8%, 21%) and 6% (0%, 13%) was obtained. Lornoxicam co-administration did not influence the free fractions of (R)- or (S)-phenprocoumon. Contrary to what was expected from the changes in pharmacokinetics, a statistically significant decrease in the effect of phenprocoumon on factor II and VII activity was observed for the sessions with lornoxicam co-administration. For factor VII, lornoxicam was found to increase the concentration causing half-maximal effect (C50) of phenprocoumon by 70% [95% CI (38%, 111%)]. Co-administration of lornoxicam at the upper limit of recommended doses mainly altered the pharmacokinetics of the more potent (S)-isomer and to a lesser degree those of (R)-phenprocoumon. Despite these changes in pharmacokinetics, a decrease of the effect on factor II and VII activity was observed. These results suggest that in the case of lornoxicam co-administration in a patient treated with phenprocoumon the prothrombin time should be monitored closely.
10051064	LC/ESI-MS allows simultaneous and specific quantification of SDZ RAD and cyclosporine, including groups of their metabolites in human blood.	An analytic technique using liquid chromatography (LC) coupled with electrospray-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) has been developed for the simultaneous determination of the new immunosuppressant SDZ RAD (40-O-[2-hydroxy)ethylrapamycin) and cyclosporine (Cs), including their metabolites in blood. With the time-sparing, automated on-line extraction technique, the recovery of SDZ RAD averaged 95% and that of Cs, 94%. The calibration lines were linear from 0.5 to 100 microg/L (r2 = 0.99) for SDZ RAD and from 10 to 1,000 microg/L (r2 = 0.99) for Cs. The method has been tested on blood samples from renal transplant recipients taken between 1 and 5 hours after oral SDZ RAD and Cs administration. In blood, we found the following metabolites: Hydroxy-SDZ RAD, dihydroxy-SDZ RAD, demethyl-SDZ RAD, and the ring-opened form of SDZ RAD. The main metabolite of SDZ RAD in blood was hydroxy-SDZ RAD. This novel LC/ESI-MS technique provided an excellent method for simultaneous quantitative monitoring of SDZ RAD and Cs, including their relevant groups of metabolites in patients treated simultaneously with these immunosuppressants.
1006719	Isolation and identification of a sulfur-containing metabolite of spironolactone from human urine.	In the urine of normal subjects who were given an oral dose of 500 mg spironolactone (3-(3-oxo-7alpha-acetylthio-17beta-hydroxy-4-androsten-17alpha-yl)-propionic acid gamma-lactone; Aldactone) together with 100uCi H-20, 21 spironolactone, a so far unknown major metabolite has been detected by thin layer chromatography. The metabolite then could be isolated by means of counter-current-distribution. According to masspectral and magnetic resonance data, the metabolite has been assigned the structure of 3-(3-oxo-7alpha-methyl sulfonyl-6beta, 17beta-dihydroxy-4-androsten-17alpha-yl)-propionic acid gamma-lactone. By oxidation of the corresponding methylsulfinyl compound - another already known metabolite of spironolactone - with m-chloroperbenzoic acid, a compound has been isolated which proved to be identical with the new metabolite according to TLC, MS and NMR.
10068153	Interactions of buspirone with itraconazole and rifampicin: effects on the pharmacokinetics of the active 1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine metabolite of buspirone.	The effects of inhibition and induction of the metabolism of buspirone on the plasma concentrations of 1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine (a piperazine metabolite), the principal active metabolite of buspirone, were investigated. Two separate randomized, placebo-controlled cross-over studies with two phases were carried out in healthy volunteers. In Study I, six subjects took itraconazole 200 mg daily or matched placebo orally for 4 days. On day 4, 10 mg buspirone was administered orally. In study II, six subjects took rifampicin 600 mg daily or matched placebo orally for 5 days. On day 6, 30 mg buspirone was administered orally. Buspirone and piperazine metabolite concentrations in plasma were determined by gas chromatography. Itraconazole decreased the mean AUC of the piperazine metabolite by 50% (P<0.05) and the Cmax by 57% (P<0.05) compared with placebo, whereas the mean AUC and Cmax of unchanged buspirone were increased 14.5-fold (P<0.05) and 10.5-fold (P<0.05), respectively, by itraconazole. Rifampicin had no significant effect on the AUC of the piperazine metabolite, but it increased the mean Cmax of the piperazine metabolite by 35% (P=0.08). The mean AUC and Cmax of parent buspirone were reduced by 91% (P<0.05) and 85% (P<0.05), respectively, by rifampicin. The mean ratio of the AUC of the piperazine metabolite to that of buspirone was decreased 34-fold (P<0.05) by itraconazole and increased 7.6-fold (P<0.05) by rifampicin. In conclusion, itraconazole and rifampicin caused only relatively minor changes in the plasma concentrations of the active piperazine metabolite of buspirone, although they had drastic effects on the concentrations of parent buspirone.
10075405	Ethyl glucuronide--a marker of alcohol consumption and a relapse marker with clinical and forensic implications.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a non-volatile, water-soluble, direct metabolite of ethanol that can be detected in body fluids and hair. We investigated urine and serum samples from three patient groups: (1) 33 in-patients in acute alcohol withdrawal; (2) 30 detoxified in-patients (treated for at least 4 weeks) from a 'motivation station'; and (3) 43 neuro-rehabilitation patients (non-alcoholics; most of them suffering from stroke, traumatic brain injury, Parkinson's disease etc.) using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) with deuterium-labelled EtG as the internal standard and additionally in the second group of patients using liquid chromatography (LC/MS-MS). We found no correlation between the concentration of EtG in urine at hospitalization and the blood-ethanol concentration (r = 0.17), the time frame of detection (r = 0.5) or the total amount of clomethiazole required for the treatment of withdrawal symptoms (r = 0.28). In four out of 30 in-patients from the 'motivation station'--where neither clinical impression nor routine laboratory findings gave indications of relapse--concentrations of EtG in urine ranged between 4.2 and 196.6 mg/l. EtG concentrations in urine of between 2.89 and 23.49 mg/l were found in seven out of 43 neuro-rehabilitation patients using GC/MS. The GC/MS and the LC/MS-MS results showed a correlation of 0.98 with Pearson's correlation test and 1.0 with Spearman's correlation test. We suggest that EtG is a marker of alcohol consumption that can be detected for an extended time period after the complete elimination of alcohol from the body. When used as a relapse marker with a specific time frame of detection intermediate between short- and long-term markers, EtG fills a clinically as well as forensically important gap. Its specificity and sensitivity exceed those of all other known ethanol markers.
10077437	Prodrug for bioreductive activation-independent delivery of menahydroquinone-4: human liver enzymatic activation and its action in warfarin-poisoned human liver.	The N,N-dimethylglycine esters of menahydroquinone-4 (1-mono, 1; 4-mono, 2; 1,4-bis, 3) were established in previous reports as prodrugs that could achieve the systemic bioreductive activation-independent delivery of menahydroquinone-4 (MKH), the active form of menaquinone-4 (MK-4), in rat. The present study was undertaken to investigate if the prodrugs could undergo cleavage to parent drug (MKH) by a human tissues enzyme catalyzed hydrolytic pathway, the mechanism of the prodrugs for vitamin K-dependent carboxylation in human liver and their action in the warfarin poisoned human liver. The hydrolysis of the esters was shown to be catalyzed by esterases located in human liver but not in human plasma. The susceptibility of the esters to undergo human liver esterase hydrolysis was affected by the esterified position: 1>2>3. By using a human liver microsomal test system, the stimulation of vitamin K-dependent carboxylation with the prodrugs was determined. The prodrug could stimulate the carboxylation activity in the absence of dithiothreitol, an artificial activator of the reductive activation pathway of MK-4. The carboxylation activity of the prodrug was strongly inhibited in the presence of eserine, an esterase inhibitor. The prodrug could also stimulate the carboxylase under warfarin-poisoned conditions, where the vitamin K cycle was strongly inhibited. The results confirmed that the prodrug could generate MKH in human liver (active site), and that the resultant MKH could act as a cofactor for the carboxylase without reductive activation processes of MK-4 to MKH. Such bioreductive activation-independent vitamin K-dependent carboxylation characteristic of the prodrug leads to enhanced pharmacological efficacy in the treatment of hypoprothrombinaemia induced in patients with coumarin and cephalosporin therapies.
10078836	Species differences in the hepatic and intestinal metabolism of cyclosporine.	1. Cyclosporin A (cyclosporine, CSA) is an immunosuppressive drug with a narrow therapeutic index. In the present study the metabolism of CSA was investigated in the liver and small intestinal microsomes obtained from rat, hamster, rabbit, dog, baboon and man by measuring the disappearance of CSA and the formation of the principal metabolites of CSA, namely hydroxylated and N-demethylated CSA. 2. CSA was metabolized at a very slow rate (2-8% metabolism in 30 min) in rat liver microsomes whereas microsomes from dog livers were very efficient (70-100% metabolism in 30 min) in metabolizing CSA. Hydroxylation and N-demethylation accounted for most of the CSA metabolized in all the species tested. 3. Microsomes from the small intestine produced qualitatively a similar metabolic profile as compared with the microsomes from the liver, but at a slower rate in all the species tested. The relative importance of the different metabolic pathways, however, differed between species. 4. This study points to the importance of recognizing the similarities and the differences in the metabolism of CSA in different species when data from animal studies are extrapolated to man.
10078842	A comparison of 1H8- and 2H8-toluene toxicokinetics in men.	1. To examine the bioequivalence of an isotope-labelled tracer to study toxicant disposition, we conducted 33 controlled human exposures to a mixture of 50 ppm 1H8-toluene and 50 ppm 2H8-toluene for 2 h, and measured concentrations in blood and breath, and metabolite levels in urine for 100 h post-exposure. 2. A physiologically based kinetic (PBK) model found that compared with 1H8-toluene, 2H8-toluene had a 6.4+/-13% (mean+/-SD) lower AUC, a 6.5+/-13% higher systemic clearance (1.46+/-0.27 versus 1.38+/-0.25 l/h-kg), a 17+/-22% larger terminal volume of distribution (66.4+/-14 versus 57.2+/-10 l/kg) and a 9.7+/-26% longer terminal half-life (38+/-12 versus 34+/-10 h) (p < 0.05 for all comparisons). 3. The higher 2H8-toluene clearance may have been due to an increased rate of ring oxidation, consistent with the 17% higher observed fraction of 2H5- versus 1H5-cresol metabolites in urine. 4. The larger terminal volume and half-lives for 2H8-toluene suggested a higher adipose tissue/blood partition coefficient. 5. Observed isotope differences were small compared with interindividual differences in 1H8-toluene kinetics from previous studies. 6. The PBK model allowed us to ascribe observed isotope differences in solvent toxicokinetics to underlying physiologic mechanisms.
10079307	In vivo evaluation in mice and metabolism in blood of human volunteers of [123I]iodo-PK11195: a possible single-photon emission tomography tracer for visualization of inflammation.	We report the in vivo evaluation (biodistribution, displacement and metabolization in blood, brain and heart) in mice and the metabolism in blood of human volunteers of iodine-123 labelled 1-(2-iodophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methyl-propyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide ([123I]iodo-PK11195), a potential radioligand for visualization of inflammation in humans by single-photon emission tomography. In three series of 18 white mice (NMRI, 20-25 g), the concentration of radioactivity was measured during 48 h. Blood samples were taken, organs and intestines were excised, excretion was collected and all tissues were weighed and counted for radioactivity. The tissue uptake of radioactivity was measured as % of the injected activity/g of tissue. The excretion was expressed as % of the injected activity. Selective tissue uptake was investigated by pretreatment of another three series of 18 mice with cold PK11195 (1 mg/kg body weight). There was an inflow of [123I]iodo-PK11195 in the brain and among peripheral organs, heart (42.3%), lungs (133.5%) and kidneys (18.4%) had the highest uptake. After pretreatment with cold PK11195, there was a decrease in accumulation in the latter three organs, especially in heart (ca. 55%) and lungs (ca. 80%). Metabolite analysis was performed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). First, the extraction yield of [123I]iodo-PK11195 from blood and tissue was assessed, and found to be >90%. From blank blood samples and organs spiked with [123I]iodo-PK11195 it was concluded that no metabolization took place during the extraction procedure. Analysis of plasma, brain and heart of mice showed that 10 min p.i. [123I]iodo-PK11195 was the only significant (ca. 95%) radioactive compound in brain and heart where-as in plasma other radioactive products (>60%) appeared. Analysis of plasma samples of the three human volunteers at 7, 20, 37 and 50 min p.i. showed that [123I]iodo-PK11195 rapidly decomposes into two polar metabolites, which at these time points accounted for, respectively 31%, 62%, 75% and 77% of the total activity.
10080644	Analytical methodology for enantiomers of salbutamol in human urine for application in doping control.	Liquid chromatographic procedure with fluorimetric detection for chiral separation and quantification of salbutamol enantiomers in urine samples has been developed. The extraction of free salbutamol from urine has been considered using liquid-liquid and solid-phase procedures. The effect of pH, salting-out effect and organic solvent has been studied in liquid-liquid extraction from aqueous and urine samples. For solid-phase extraction, different mechanisms (polar, non-polar, cation-exchange and interactions with a polymeric phase) have been tested and the effect of the urine matrix on the extraction recoveries has been considered. Bond-Elut Certify extraction cartridges provided the best specificity and good recoveries for salbutamol in urine. The sample is acidified, applied to the preconditioned cartridges and, after a washing step, salbutamol enantiomers are eluted with a mixture of chloroform and 2-propanol (80:20, v/v) containing 2% ammonia. Atenolol is used as external standard. Enantioselective separation is accomplished with a Chirex 3022 stationary phase (urea type silica-bonded chiral phase) using a mobile phase containing hexane-dichloromethane-methanol-trifluoroacetic acid (250:218:31:1, v/v) and fluorimetric detection with excitation and emission wavelengths set at 230 and 309 nm, respectively. The method proposed is rapid, selective and sensitive, and seems to be useful to differentiate between an authorized and a prohibited use of the drug in doping control.
10094790	Femtomole quantitation of 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecine (SN-38) in plasma samples by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.	7-Ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecine (SN-38) is the active metabolite of the topoisomerase I inhibitor and antineoplastic agent, irinotecan (CPT-11). Here, we present a new and sensitive reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of SN-38 in human plasma samples. Sample pretreatment involves a protein precipitation of 1-mL samples with 2 mL of acetonitrile, followed by a one-step solvent extraction with 5 mL of chloroform, with camptothecine used as internal standard. Chromatographic separation was achieved on an analytical column packed with Hypersil ODS material (100 x 4.6 mm i.d., 5 microm P.S.), and isocratic elution with a mixture of acetonitrile:0.1 M ammonium acetate containing 10 mM tetrabutylammonium sulfate (23:77, v/v), pH 5.3 (hydrochloric acid). The column effluent was monitored at excitation and emission wavelengths of 380 and 556 nm, respectively. The limit of quantitation of the method presented was at the low femtomole level ( approximately 8.4 fmol; equivalent to 5 pg/mL), with the standard curves being linear over nearly three orders of magnitude. Intraassay precision was <9%, while interassay variations were between 2 and 5%. The extraction efficiency was concentration independent and averaged 88.0 +/- 14.3% (mean +/- standard deviation; n = 59). The described method will be used in future studies to assess the extent of enterohepatic recirculation of SN-38 in cancer patients following intravenous CPT-11 treatment.
10096261	Effects of the CYP2D6*10 allele on the steady-state plasma concentrations of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol in Japanese patients with schizophrenia.	The CYP2D6*10 (*10) allele that causes decreased CYP2D6 activity is present in Asians with a high frequency of about 50%. In this study we studied the effects of the *10 allele on the steady-state plasma concentrations (Css) of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol. The subjects were 67 Japanese inpatients with schizophrenia who had only the wild-type or *10 alleles. Thirty-four patients were homozygous for the wild-type allele, and 26 were heterozygous and 7 were homozygous for the *10 allele. All patients had been receiving 12 mg/day haloperidol for at least 2 weeks. Plasma concentrations of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol were measured by HPLC. The mean +/- SD values of haloperidol Css in the patients with 0, 1, and 2 *10 alleles were 22.8+/-11.0, 30.1+/-10.6, and 31.2+/-21.2 nmol/L, respectively, and those values for reduced haloperidol were 6.1+/-2.9, 9.5+/-3.7, and 9.9+/-6.2 nmol/L, respectively. The mean haloperidol Css was significantly (P < .05) higher in the patients with 1 *10 allele than in those with no *10 alleles. The mean Css of reduced haloperidol was significantly (P < .05) higher in the patients with 1 and 2 *10 alleles than in those with no *10 alleles. This study suggests that the *10 allele plays an important role in controlling the Css of both haloperidol and reduced haloperidol, especially in Asian subjects.
10117	Saturable metabolic pathways for ethotoin in man.	1. The urinary excretion pattern of ethotoin and five metabolites were examined in three patients receiving continuous treatment with ethotoin at two dose levels, in order to investigate the mechanism behind the dose-dependent kinetics of this anticonvulsant drug. 2. The results suggest a partial saturation in the dealkylation process at high dose levels in three patients. 3. A rough approximation of the Michaelis-Menten constants for different enzymatic processes was attempted. On the basis of the results obtained, the p-hydroxylation may be a saturable process. 4. The dose-dependent kinetics of ethotoin in man seem to be explicable by the existence of partly saturable enzymatic pathways.
1012347	Pharmacokinetics of spironolactone in man.	Five healthy male volunteers received 500 mg Aldactone orally together 100 muCi 3H-20-21-spironolactone; one elderly patient received 1 mCi 3H-spironolactone without additional 'cold' drug. For 6 days the disposition kinetics of the drug were studied in plasma, urine and feces. The tritium concentrations in plasma reached a peak between 25-40 min after administration amounting to 2-3% of the dose/1. Up to the 12th h, they fell rapidly and showed a monoexponential decline (t 1/2: 2.57 +/- 0.27 days) between the 36th and 96th h. Later, a striking increase in the speed of elimination of radioactivity from plasma (t 1/2: 1.66 +/- 0.21 days) was observed. The biological half-life of labeled material in plasma was longer than that of fluorigenic compounds. 47-57% of the dose were excreted in urine and the remaining amount could be detected in feces (total recovery 90%). The half-life of the urinary excretion rate was distinctly shorter (t 1/2: 0.9 +/- 0.11 days) than that of total radioactivity in plasma. This, together with an observed increase of the polar fraction in urine from 35 up to 85%, which was accompanied by a decrease in plasma from 55 to 35%, suggests either tubular reabsorption or enterohepatic recirculation of lipophilic compounds. TLC-separation of the lipophilic fraction in urine revealed two previously unknown compounds of which the main congener was identified as 3-(3-oxo-7 alpha-methylsulfonyl-6 beta, 17 beta-dihydroxy-4-androsten-17 alpha-yl) propionic acid gamma-lactone, as well as canrenone and the metabolites which have already been described (Karim and Brown, 1972; Karim et al., 1975). This metabolite represents the main lipophilic degradation product in urine within the first hours, whereas the 6 beta-OH-7 alpha-methylsulfinyl-spirolactone leveled off and seemed to be and endexcretion product. For further characterisation, the polar fraction was subjected to acidic hydrolysis. The known metabolic pathways of spironolactone degradation are discussed.
10192416	Accuracy of five on-site immunoassay drugs-of-abuse testing devices.	Many current "on-site" urine drug-testing products claim performance equivalent to laboratory testing. Five commercially available products (PharmScreen, Roche TestCup, Accusign DOA 2, Status DS, and American Bio Medica-Rapid Drug Screen) were challenged with quality-control specimens of known drug metabolite concentrations, 25% above and 25% below the SAMHSA cutoffs, and with known positive and negative donor specimens previously analyzed by immunoassay and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The results indicate discrepancies between claims and performance for all products, particularly with amphetamines. The implications for employer-based drug testing are discussed.
10192756	Inhibition of CYP2C9 by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: in vitro studies with tolbutamide and (S)-warfarin using human liver microsomes.	To investigate the in vitro potential of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to inhibit two CYP2C9-catalysed reactions, tolbutamide 4-methylhydroxylation and (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation. The formation of 4-hydroxytolbutamide from tolbutamide and that of 7-hydroxywarfarin from (S)-warfarin as a function of different concentrations of SSRIs and some of their metabolites was studied in microsomes from three human livers. Both tolbutamide 4-methylhydroxylation and (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation followed one enzyme Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Kinetic analysis of 4-hydroxytolbutamide formation yielded a mean apparent Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) of 133 microM and a mean apparent maximal velocity (Vmax) of 248 pmol x min(-1) x mg(-1); formation of 7-hydroxywarfarin yielded a mean Km of 3.7 microM and a mean Vmax of 10.5 pmol x min(-1) x mg(-1). Amongst the SSRIs and some of their metabolites tested, only fluvoxamine markedly inhibited both reactions. The average computed inhibition constant (Ki) values and ranges of fluvoxamine when tolbutamide and (S)-warfarin were used as substrate, were 13.3 (6.4-17.3) microM and 13.0 (8.4-18.7) microM, respectively. The average Ki value of fluoxetine for (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation was 87.0 (57.0-125) microM. Amongst the SSRIs tested, fluvoxamine was shown to be the most potent inhibitor of both tolbutamide 4-methylhydroxylation and (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation. Fluoxetine, norfluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, desmethylsertraline, citalopram, desmethylcitalopram had little or no effect on CYP2C9 activity in vitro. This is consistent with in vivo data indicating that amongst the SSRIs, fluvoxamine has the greatest potential for inhibiting CYP2C9-mediated drug metabolism.
10193676	Effect of erythromycin and itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics of oral lignocaine.	Lignocaine is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme (CYP3A4), and has a moderate to high extraction ratio resulting in oral bioavailability of 30%. We have studied the possible effect of two inhibitors of CYP3A4, erythromycin and itraconazole, on the pharmacokinetics of oral lignocaine in nine volunteers using a cross-over study design. The subjects were given erythromycin orally (500 mg three times a day), itraconazole (200 mg once a day) or placebo for four days. On day 4, each subject ingested a single dose of 1 mg/kg of oral lignocaine. Plasma samples were collected until 10 hr and concentrations of lignocaine and its major metabolite, monoethylglycinexylidide were measured by gas chromatography. Both erythromycin and itraconazole increased the area under the lignocaine plasma concentration-time curve [AUC(0-infinity)] and lignocaine peak concentrations by 40-70% (P<0.05). Compared to placebo and itraconazole, erythromycin increased monoethylglycinexylidide peak concentrations by approximately 40% (P<0.01) and AUC(0-infinity) by 60% (P<0.01). The clinical implication of this study is that erythromycin and itraconazole may significantly increase the plasma concentrations and toxicity of oral lignocaine. The extent of the interaction of lignocaine with these CYP3A4 inhibitors was, however, less than that of, e.g. midazolam or buspirone, and it did not correlate with the CYP3A4 inhibiting potency of erythromycin and itraconazole.
10197418	Identification of urinary metabolites of clemastine after oral administration to man.	The metabolism of clemastine, 2-[2-[1-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-phenylethoxylethyl])-1-methylpyrrolidin e, has been studied in three adult male volunteers after a single oral dose of 20 mg as the fumarate. After enzymatic hydrolysis solvent extracts of urine were derivatized with N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide-ammonium iodide and analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The structures of metabolites were determined on the basis of electron impact and chemical ionization mass spectra and the identities of some (e.g. carbinol, 4-chlorobenzophenone and 4-chlorophenylstyrene) were confirmed by use of authentic standards. The principal route of metabolism of clemastine in man involves direct oxidation, O-dealkylation (fission of the ether bond), aromatic hydroxylation, aliphatic oxidation, alcoholic dehydration, and then enzymatic hydrolysis. Of the total amount of metabolites excreted in the urine 35% was carbinol (metabolite M3, major metabolite), 15% was M1, 17% was M2, 11% was M4, 9% was M5, 8% was M6 and 5% was M7.
10197480	Possible preferential metabolism of xylene isomers following occupational exposure to mixed xylenes.	Solvent exposures commonly involve mixtures of substances or mixtures of isomers of a single solvent. These may be metabolised through common pathways, resulting in the potential for metabolic interactions. These may then lead to accumulation of solvent or metabolic intermediates, some of which may be toxic. This paper describes a pilot study conducted to determine the correlation between airborne xylene isomers and the appearance of methylhippuric acid (MHA) isomers in urine of workers exposed mainly to xylene. The project also aimed to determine whether there is preferential metabolism of any isomer by comparison of the ratios of airborne isomers with the ratios of metabolite isomers appearing in urine. A total of 12 workers (11 male, 1 female) were recruited into this study, with 2 of the participants providing samples on more than one occasion. Workers included flooring contractors (5), printers (2), chemical manufacturers (2), histology technicians (2) and one householder using a xylene-based varnish. Subjects were aged between 24 and 48 years (37.6+/-2.0 years; mean +/- SEM). After giving informed consent, workers provided a prework and postwork urine sample on a midweek work day. Samples were stored frozen prior to analysis. Breathing-zone air samples were collected using personal air samplers at 50 ml/min. Solvents were trapped on activated-charcoal sampling tubes. Subjects wore pumps for 18-304 (178+/-24) min on the same day on which urine samples were collected. Xylene exposures ranged from 1.6 to over 7000 ppm. In all, 7 of 16 measurements exceeded the Australian TWA standard of 80 ppm. Two of the flooring contractors wore respiratory protective equipment (RPE) and the two histopathology technicians used workplace ventilation systems. Total urinary MHA output ranged from 10 to 8000 mmol/mol creatinine, with 6 of 16 samples exceeding the modified biological exposure index of 702 mmol/mol. Correlations between airborne concentrations of individual xylene isomers and their corresponding MHA isomers were poor but improved when workers using RPE were excluded from the analysis. Gradients of the regression lines (millimoles of MHA per mole of creatinine per parts per million of xylene) were 3.2 for o-isomers, 7.0 for p-isomers, and 14.4 for m-isomers. Comparisons of isomer ratios of xylene in air were made with the corresponding ratio of MHA isomers in urine. These revealed higher ratios of m-MHA to other MHA isomers than those of m-xylene to the other xylene isomers. The MHA isomer ratios were expected to be the same as the airborne xylene isomer ratios if there were no preferential elimination of any isomer. m-MHA appeared in urine in a greater proportion than would be predicted from the proportion of m-xylene detected in air. The time course of the appearance of MHA isomers in urine also suggests that interactions were taking place, with m-MHA appearing in high proportion in urine following several days of repeated heavy xylene exposure. On a single moderate exposure, m-MHA appeared initially in high proportion in the first few hours but was undetectable in urine after 18 h. p-MHA was detectable for up to 6 h after exposure, and o-MHA remained detectable after 18 h. This study suggests that excretion of m-MHA in urine is favoured over that of the other isomers following exposure to mixed xylenes. This is independent of airborne xylene isomer composition and suggests that the metabolism of m-xylene occurs preferentially to that of the other isomers. It is not clear at which step in the metabolism of xylene this preference occurs, although other work indicates that the initial oxidation of xylene to methylbenzyl alcohol by cytochrome P450 2E1 occurs at the same rate for each isomer. These findings suggest that there is potential for metabolic interactions between xylene isomers and that these may be the basis for xylene toxicity.
10201824	Synthesis of glucuronides of multidrug resistance reversing drug MS-209.	We synthesized the glucuronides of MS-209 to identify the two main unknown metabolites in human urine. Reaction of MS-209 and glucuronyl trichloroacetimidate gave two beta-isomers, which were each glucuronate of (R)- and (S)-MS-209. These spectrum data were identical with the metabolites.
10202964	High-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of atracurium and laudanosine in human plasma. Application to pharmacokinetics.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method coupled with fluorimetric detection has been developed for the determination of atracurium and its major metabolite, laudanosine, in human plasma. The detection is performed at 240 nm for excitation and 320 nm for emission. Verapamil was used as the internal standard. The proposed technique, involving the direct precipitation of plasma proteins is reproducible, selective and sensitive. Linear detector responses were observed for the calibration curve standards in the range of 40 to 2000 ng/ml. Precision, expressed as C.V., was in the range 1 to 14%. The limit of quantification for both atracurium and laudanosine was 40 ng/ml. The method has been validated and stability tests under various conditions have been performed. This method has been used to determine the pharmacokinetic profile of atracurium and laudanosine in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome.
10207612	Metabolism of benzene in human liver microsomes: individual variations in relation to CYP2E1 expression.	In human liver microsomes the oxidations of benzene, chlorzoxazone, aniline, dimethylformamide, and 4-nitrophenol were significantly correlated with each other and with the level of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1 estimated by immunoblotting. Moreover, benzene oxidation to water-soluble metabolites was suppressed by 0.1 mM diethyldithiocarbamate, supposedly a specific inhibitor of CYP2E1 at this level. None of these metabolic rates correlated with immunochemically determined levels of CYP1A2, 2C9, and 3A4 nor oxidation of 7-ethoxyresorufin, tolbutamide, and nifedipine. Benzene oxidation to water-soluble metabolites was characterized by typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The different benzene K(m) values seen in individual human microsomal samples were not correlated with the level or activity of CYP1A2, 2C9, 2E1, and 3A4 but could be due to CYP2E1 microheterogeneity. The lowest K(m) for benzene oxidation could be related to C/D and/or c1/c2 polymorphism of CYP2E1 gene. Covalent binding of benzene reactive metabolites to microsomal proteins was also correlated with the CYP2E1 metabolic rates and immunochemical levels. At high concentrations of benzene covalent binding was inversely related to benzene concentrations (as well as to formation of water-soluble metabolites) in agreement with the view that secondary metabolites, mainly benzoquinone, are responsible for the covalent binding.
10216279	6alpha-hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid by CYP3A4 in human liver microsomes.	The aim of the present study was to identify the enzymes in human liver catalyzing hydroxylations of bile acids. Fourteen recombinant expressed cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, human liver microsomes from different donors, and selective cytochrome P450 inhibitors were used to study the hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid. Recombinant expressed CYP3A4 was the only enzyme that was active towards these bile acids and the enzyme catalyzed an efficient 6alpha-hydroxylation of both taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid. The Vmax for 6alpha-hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic acid by CYP3A4 was 18.2 nmol/nmol P450/min and the apparent Km was 90 microM. Cytochrome b5 was required for maximal activity. Human liver microsomes from 10 different donors, in which different P450 marker activities had been determined, were separately incubated with taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid. A strong correlation was found between 6alpha-hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic acid, CYP3A levels (r2=0.97) and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (r2=0.9). There was also a strong correlation between 6alpha-hydroxylation of lithocholic acid, CYP3A levels and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (r2=0.7). Troleandomycin, a selective inhibitor of CYP3A enzymes, inhibited 6alpha-hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic acid almost completely at a 10 microM concentration. Other inhibitors, such as alpha-naphthoflavone, sulfaphenazole and tranylcypromine had very little or no effect on the activity. The apparent Km for 6alpha-hydroxylation of taurochenodeoxycholic by human liver microsomes was high (716 microM). This might give an explanation for the limited formation of 6alpha-hydroxylated bile acids in healthy humans. From the present results, it can be concluded that CYP3A4 is active in the 6alpha-hydroxylation of both taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid in human liver.
10217337	Influence of oxcarbazepine and methsuximide on lamotrigine concentrations in epileptic patients with and without valproic acid comedication: results of a retrospective study.	The aim of this retrospective study was to investigate the influence of oxcarbazepine (OCBZ) and methsuximide (MSM) on lamotrigine (LTG) serum concentrations. The effect of OCBZ compared to carbamazepine (CBZ) and the effect of MSM on LTG serum concentrations were examined in patients with and without valproic acid (VPA) comedication. Altogether, 376 samples from 222 patients were analyzed in routine drug monitoring. Two or more serum samples from the same patient were considered only if the comedication had been changed. For statistical evaluation, regression analytical methods and an analysis of variance were performed. For the analysis of variance, the LTG serum concentration in relation to LTG dose/ body weight--level-to-dose ratio (LDR), in (microg/mL)/(mg/kg)--was calculated and compared for different drug combinations. The nonlinear regression analysis including the LTG dose per body weight, age, gender, and the different kinds of comedication revealed that these variables have a significant influence on LTG serum concentration (r2 = 0.724). The relationship between LTG dose/body weight and serum concentration deviates only slightly from linearity, the LTG concentration was about 18% lower in women than in men, and age had a significant influence. The data indicate that children have significantly lower LTG concentrations than adults on a comparable LTG dose per body weight and that children may be more prone to enzyme induction by comedicated drugs. Methsuximide has a strong inducing effect on the LTG metabolism and decreases the LTG concentrations markedly (about 70% compared to LTG monotherapy). Carbamazepine also reduces the LTG concentrations considerably (by 54%). The inducing effect of OCBZ (29%) was less pronounced but also significant. The inducing effect of MSM, CBZ, and OCBZ was also seen in combination with VPA: VPA alone increases the LTG concentration approximately 211%, whereas in addition to MSM (8%), CBZ (21%), or OCBZ (111%), the increase of LTG was significantly smaller. The analysis of variance confirmed the results of the regression analysis. The effect of MSM on the LTG concentration should be considered if MSM is added or withdrawn in patients treated with LTG. Oxcarbazepine had a less pronounced inducing effect on LTG metabolism compared to CBZ. If CBZ is replaced by OCBZ as comedication, an increase in LTG serum concentrations should be expected.
10219964	Effects of arachidonic acid, prostaglandins, retinol, retinoic acid and cholecalciferol on xenobiotic oxidations catalysed by human cytochrome P450 enzymes.	1. Effects of arachidonic acid, prostaglandins, retinol, retinoic acid and cholecalciferol on xenobiotic oxidations catalysed by 12 recombinant human cytochrome P450 (P450 or CYP) enzymes and by human liver microsomes have been investigated. 2. Arachidonic acid (50 microM) significantly inhibited CYP1A1- and 1A2-dependent 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylations, CYP2C8-dependent taxol 6alpha-hydroxylation and CYP2C19-dependent R-warfarin 7-hydroxylation. This chemical also inhibited slightly the xenobiotic oxidations catalysed by CYP1B1, 2B6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 in recombinant enzyme systems. 3. Retinol, retinoic acid and cholecalciferol were strong inhibitors for xenobiotic oxidations catalysed by recombinant CYP1A1, 2C8 and 2C19. 4. Dixon plots of inhibitions of CYP1A1-, 1A2-, 2C8- and 2C19-dependent xenobiotic oxidations by arachidonic acid, of CYP1A1-, 2B6- and 2C19-dependent activities by retinol, and of CYP1A1- and 2C19-dependent activities by cholecalciferol indicated that these chemicals inhibit P450 activities mainly through a competitive mechanism. 5. In human liver microsomes, arachidonic acid inhibited CYP1A2-dependent theophylline hydroxylation, CYP2C8-dependent taxol 6alpha-hydroxylation and CYP2C19-dependent omeprazole 5-hydroxylation. Taxol 6alpha-hydroxylation was also inhibited by retinol and retinoic acid, and omeprazole 5-hydroxylation was inhibited by retinol in human liver microsomes. 6. These results suggest that xenobiotic oxidations by P450 enzymes are affected by endobiotic chemicals and that the endobiotic-xenobiotic interactions as well as drug-drug interactions may be of great importance when understanding the basis for pharmacological and toxicological actions of a number of xenobiotic chemicals.
10219970	Disposition of ropinirole in animals and man.	1. The disposition and metabolic fate of ropinirole, a novel compound indicated for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease, was studied in the mouse, rat, cynomolgus monkey and man, following oral and intravenous administration of ropinirole hydrochloride. 2. In all species, nearly all of the p.o. administered dose (94%) was rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract following administration of 14C-ropinirole hydrochloride. In rat and monkey, the compound distributed rapidly beyond total body water and was shown to cross the blood-brain barrier. Blood clearance of the compound was high, approximately equal to one-half the hepatic blood flow in the monkey and similar to the hepatic blood flow in rat. Terminal phase elimination half-lives for the compound were relatively short (0.5 and 1.3 h in rat and monkey respectively), although there was evidence of a second elimination phase in the monkey with an elimination half-life of approximately 5-11 h. Plasma concentrations of ropinirole after the intravenous dose were not determined in the mouse and were below the lower limit of quantification in man (0.08 ng/ml) at the doses used in the studies described in this paper. 3. In both animals and man, ropinirole was extensively metabolized. In the rat, the major metabolic pathway was via hydroxylation of the aromatic ring to form 7-hydroxy ropinirole. In mouse, monkey and man, the major pathway was via N-depropylation. The N-despropyl metabolite was metabolized further to form 7-hydroxy and carboxylic acid derivatives. Metabolites formed in all species were generally metabolized further by glucuronidation. 7-Hydroxy ropinirole is the only metabolite of ropinirole previously shown to possess significant dopamine agonist activity in vivo. In all species, the major route of excretion of ropinirole-related material after oral or intravenous administration of the compound was renal (60-90% of dose).
10223205	Determination of the urinary benzene metabolites S-phenylmercapturic acid and trans,trans-muconic acid by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	To investigate how various levels of exposure affect the metabolic activation pathways of benzene in humans and to examine the relationship between urinary metabolites and other biological markers, we have developed a sensitive and specific liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric assay for simultaneous quantitation of urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA). The assay involves spiking urine samples with [13C6]S-PMA and [13C6]t,t-MA as internal standards and clean up of samples by solid-phase extraction with subsequent analysis by liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray-tandem mass spectrometry-selected reaction monitoring (LC-ES-MS/MS-SRM) in the negative ionization mode. The efficacy of this assay was evaluated in human urine specimens from smokers and non-smokers as the benzene-exposed and non-exposed groups. The coefficient of variation of runs on different days (n = 8) for S-PMA was 7% for the sample containing 9.4 microg S-PMA/l urine, that for t,t-MA was 10% for samples containing 0.07 mg t,t-MA/l urine. The mean levels of urinary S-PMA and t,t-MA in smokers were 1.9-fold (P = 0.02) and 2.1-fold (P = 0.03) higher than those in non-smokers. The mean urinary concentration (+/-SE) was 9.1 +/- 1.7 microg S-PMA/g creatinine [median 5.8 microg/g, ranging from not detectable (1 out of 28) to 33.4 microg/g] among smokers. In non-smokers' urine the mean concentration was 4.8 +/- 1.1 microg S-PMA/g creatinine (median 3.6 microg/g, ranging from 1.0 to 19.6 microg/g). For t,t-MA in smokers' urine the mean (+/-SE) was 0.15 +/- 0.03 mg/g creatinine (median 0.11 mg/ g, ranging from 0.005 to 0.34 mg/g); the corresponding mean value for t,t-MA concentration in non-smokers' urine was 0.07 +/- 0.02 mg/g creatinine [median 0.03 mg/g, ranging from undetectable (1 out of 18) to 0.48 mg/g]. There was a correlation between S-PMA and t,t-MA after logarithmic transformation (r = 0.41, P = 0.005, n = 46).
10223723	Augmentation of melanoma-specific gene expression using a tandem melanocyte-specific enhancer results in increased cytotoxicity of the purine nucleoside phosphorylase gene in melanoma.	The lineage-specific human tyrosinase promoter has been used to successfully target gene expression at the transcriptional level to melanoma cells. The tyrosinase promoter, alone and in combination with a single, or a dual, tandem melanocyte-specific enhancer, was used to regulate expression of the firefly luciferase reporter gene. Transient transfections of these tissue-specific luciferase constructs in human and murine melanoma (Pmel, B16mel) and colon carcinoma (WiDr, MC38) cell lines resulted in melanoma-specific luciferase expression that was amplified 5- and 500-fold with the addition of a single or double enhancer, respectively, to the tyrosinase promoter. When the double enhancer-promoter construct expressed the highly toxic Escherichia coli purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) gene, transfection of the same cell lines followed by administration of the prodrug 6-methyl purine deoxyriboside (6-MPDR) at a concentration of 50 microM caused melanoma-specific in vitro cell killing. Within 5 days after prodrug administration methylthiazol-tetrazolium (MTT) cytotoxicity assays showed that only 15 and 9% of Pmel and B16mel cells, respectively, remained viable compared with controls. This effect was highly specific, as 90 and 96% of WiDr and MC38 colon carcinoma cells remained viable 5 days after identical treatment. This effect was a direct result of increased tissue-specific conversion of 6-MPDR to the toxic metabolite 6-methylpurine (6-MP), as documented by HPLC analysis of culture supernatants. These results show that the dual tandem melanocyte-specific enhancer provides powerful amplification of the transcriptional targeting of gene expression afforded by use of the tyrosinase promoter. This amplification translates into increased, highly specific cytotoxicity to melanoma by the PNP/6-MPDR enzyme/prodrug system and, therefore, has potential efficacy in the use of gene therapy for the treatment of metastatic melanoma.
10231150	Administration and pharmacokinetics of high-dose cyclophosphamide with hemodialysis support for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in acute leukemia and end-stage renal disease.	We report a patient with pre-existing end-stage renal disease (ESRD) who underwent successful matched related donor allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for AML in second complete remission (CR2) using conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide (CY, 60 mg/kg/day x 2) and TBI (165 cGy twice daily x 4 days). The timing of hemodialysis after high-dose CY was extrapolated from available data on the pharmacokinetics of high-dose CY and hemodialysis clearance of conventional dose CY and its metabolites. Pharmacokinetic analyses indicated that the elimination of high-dose CY and its alkylating metabolites is impaired in ESRD but is cleared with hemodialysis. The patient's early post-transplant course was uncomplicated, and WBC and platelet engraftment occurred by day +22. Bone marrow examination on day +25 showed trilineage engraftment with no AML; cytogenetics showed 100% donor karyotype. The patient remains in remission with 100% donor karyotype at 3 years post transplant. Clinical results indicate that the administration of high-dose CY is feasible with hemodialysis support for patients with ESRD.
10232828	Nitroxide metabolism in the human keratinocyte cell line HaCaT.	Metabolism of different nitroxides with piperidine structure used as spin labels in electron spin resonance (ESR) studies in vitro and in vivo was investigated in human keratinocytes of the cell line HaCaT by GC and GC-MS technique combined with S-band ESR. Besides the well known reduction of the nitroxyl radicals to the ESR silent hydroxylamines as primary products our results indicate the formation of the corresponding secondary amines. These reductions are inhibited by the thiol blocking agent N-ethylmaleimide and by the strong inhibitors of the thioredoxin reductase (TR) 2-chloro-2,4-nitrobenzene and 2,6-dichloroindophenol. The competitive inhibitor TR inhibitor azelaic acid and the cytochrome P-450 inhibitor metyrapone lack any effects. The rates of reduction to the hydroxylamines and secondary amines were dependent on the lipid solubility of the nitroxides. Therefore, it can be assumed that the nitroxides must enter the cells for their bioreduction. The mostly discussed intracellular nitroxide reducing substances ascorbic acid and glutathione were unable to form the secondary amines. In conclusion, our results suggest that the secondary amine represents one of the major metabolites of nitroxides besides the hydroxylamine inside keratinocytes formed via the flavoenzyme thioredoxin reductase most probably. Further metabolic conversions were detected with 4-oxo-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl and the benzoate of 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl as substrates.
103331	The disposition and metabolism of flurbiprofen in several species including man.	Flurbiprofen was rapidly absorbed in all species studied. 2. Half-lives of elimination measured 0 to 12 h after a single dose were: mouse 3.4 h, rat 2.5 h, dog 10.1 h, baboon 3.1 h and man 3.9 h. A second phase of elimination was seen in the dog. Flurbiprofen accumulated in the circulation of the dog on repeated dosing. 3. After dosing with [14C]flurbiprofen, tissue levels of radioactivity in dog and baboon were similar to that in plasma. In the rat, levels were slightly elevated in liver, kidney, large intestine and thyroid after repeated dosing. 4. The dog excreted equal amounts of radioactivity in urine and faeces. In other species renal excretion was the more important route. 5. Six metabolites have been detected, the most important being: 2-(2-fluoro-4'-hydroxy-4-biphenylyl)propionic acid (metabolite 1), 2-(i-fluoro-3',4'-dihydroxy-4-biphenylyl)propionic acid (metabolite 2) and 2-(2-fluoro-3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxy-4-biphenylyl)propionic acid (metabolite 3). The proportions of the metabolites and the extents of their conjugation varied among the species. 6. Metabolites were detected in the circulation of rat, mouse and baboon but not in dog and man. 7. Flurbiprofen did not affect the hepatic drug-metabolizing enzyme system of rat. 8. Flurbiprofen was extensively bound to serum protein of rat, dog, baboon and man.
10333318	Assessment of the exposure of children to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) by different methods.	1. In order to elucidate the role of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) in various acute and chronic illnesses in children, it is important to assess the degree of exposure by suitable methods. For this purpose, we determined the exposure to ETS in 39 children (4-15 years) and 43 adults (16+ years) by questionnaires, personal diffusion samplers for nicotine, and cotinine measurements in saliva and urine. In addition, the influence of the smoking status and the location of the home (urban or suburban) on the benzene exposure of the children was investigated. 2. On average, the 24 children living in homes with at least one smoker were exposed to ETS for 3.1 h/d. This is significantly longer (P<0.001) than the daily exposure time of the 15 children from nonsmoking homes (0.3 h/d). The nicotine concentrations on the personal samplers worn over 7 days were 0.615 and 0.046 microg/m3 for children from smoking and nonsmoking homes, respectively (P<0.001). Average salivary cotinine levels were 1.95 ng/ml in children from smoking homes and 0.11 ng/ml in children from nonsmoking homes (P< 0.01). The corresponding urinary cotinine levels were 29.4 and 4.5 ng/mg creatinine (P< 0.001). There was no difference in the extent of ETS exposure between children and adults from smoking households. Adults from nonsmoking homes tended to have higher ETS exposure than children from nonsmoking homes. 3. Exposure to benzene, which was determined by means of personal samplers, measurements of benzene in exhaled air and of the urinary benzene metabolite trans, trans-muconic acid, was not significantly related to the smoking status of the home but primarily dependent on the location of the home.
10340724	The pineal and extra-pineal origins of 5-sulphatoxy N-acetyl-serotonin in humans.	In humans 6-sulphatoxy melatonin (SaMT) is the principal metabolite of endogenous and exogenous melatonin. 5-sulphatoxy N-acetyl-serotonin (SNAS) is a minor metabolite of exogenous melatonin, but it has not been established whether the levels of endogenous SNAS in plasma derives principally from endogenous melatonin. We have developed the first radioimmunoassay (RIA) for SNAS and used it (together with RIAs for melatonin and SaMT) to determine whether endogenous SNAS derives from endogenous melatonin or from platelet serotonin. Our results show a) the values of endogenous SNAS, unlike endogenous SaMT, increased with blood collection procedures that increased the values of serotonin, b) the values of endogenous SNAS in urine or in platelet-poor plasma were approximately the same as those of endogenous SaMT, but, unlike SaMT, did not show a diurnal rhythm, and c) we confirmed that SNAS was a minor metabolite of orally ingested melatonin. Thus, our conclusion is that SNAS is a minor metabolite of exogenous melatonin, but is not a significant metabolite of endogenous melatonin. In all probability, endogenous SNAS is principally the metabolite of platelet serotonin.
10341740	Oral and dermal absorption of chlorpyrifos: a human volunteer study.	To determine the kinetics of elimination of urinary dialkylphosphate metabolites after oral and dermally applied doses of the organophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos to human volunteers and to determine whether these doses affected plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase activity. Five volunteers ingested 1 mg (2852 nmol) of chlorpyrifos. Blood samples were taken over 24 hours and total void volumes of urine were collected over 100 hours. Four weeks later 28.59 mg (81567 nmol) of chlorpyrifos was administered dermally to each volunteer for 8 hours. Unabsorbed chlorpyrifos was washed from the skin and retained for subsequent measurement. The same blood and urine sampling regime was followed as for the oral administration. Plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase concentrations were determined for each blood sample. The concentration of two urinary metabolites of chlorpyrifos--diethylphosphate and diethyl-thiophosphate--was determined for each urine sample. The apparent elimination half life of urinary dialkylphosphates after the oral dose was 15.5 hours and after the dermal dose it was 30 hours. Most of the oral dose (mean (range) 93% (55-115%)) and 1% of the applied dermal dose was recovered as urinary metabolites. About half (53%) of the dermal dose was recovered from the skin surface. The absorption rate through the skin, as measured by urinary metabolites was 456 ng/cm2/h. Blood plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase activity did not fall significantly during either dosing regime. An oral dose of chlorpyrifos was readily absorbed through the skin and almost all of the dose was recovered as urinary dialkylphosphate metabolites. Excretion was delayed compared with the oral dose. Only a small proportion of the applied dose was recovered during the course of the experiment. The best time to collect urine samples for biological monitoring after dermal exposure is before the shift the next day. The amounts of chlorpyrifos used did not depress acetyl cholinesterase activity but could be readily detected as urinary dialkylphosphate metabolites indicating that the urinary assay is a more sensitive indicator of exposure.
10344638	Fate of the flavonoid quercetin in human cell lines: chemical instability and metabolism.	Although cell cultures are increasingly being used as models for studying the biological actions of flavonoids, no information on the fate, such as uptake and metabolism, exists for these natural products in these models. This study examined the elimination of quercetin, one of the most abundant flavonoids, from the cultured human hepatocarcinoma cell line Hep G2 using [14C]-labelled compound with HPLC and LC/MS for structure characterization. These cells showed a 9.6-fold accumulation of quercetin and the formation of an O-methylated metabolite, isorhamnetin. However, a rapid elimination of quercetin, with no unchanged compound present beyond 8 h, was mainly due to oxidative degradation. The initial intermediate reaction appears to involve peroxidation, leading to a dioxetan, as evidenced by a 32-amu increase in the molecular ion by LC/MS. Subsequently, opening of the C-ring leads to the formation of carboxylic acids, the major one identified in this study as protocatechuic acid. A separate reaction results in a polymeric quercetin product which is highly retained on a reversed-phase C18 HPLC column. It is postulated that these degradative and metabolic changes contribute to the multiple biological actions reported for quercetin, using cell culture models. Interestingly, part of the degradative pathway could be inhibited by including nontoxic concentrations of EDTA in the cell culture medium.
10348176	Determination of ethyl glucuronide, a minor metabolite of ethanol, in human serum by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.	A rapid and sensitive determination procedure using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS) has been developed for the determination of ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in human serum. Samples were precipitated with methanol, centrifuged and the supernatant was evaporated to dryness followed by reconstitution with distilled water. As mobile phase 30 mM ammonium acetate-acetonitrile (30:70, v/v) was utilized. The base peak observed at m/z 221 was the [M-H]- ion of EtG, which was detectable in satisfactory sense. The detection limit was 0.03 microg/ml in the selected ion monitoring mode. A calibration graph constructed for EtG in serum gave good linearity over the range from 0.1 to 25 microg/ml. This paper also presents the application of this LC-ESI-MS procedure to the analysis of authentic serum samples.
10348180	Excretion study of the beta2-agonist reproterol in human urine.	An excretion study of the beta2-agonist 7-[3-[(beta-3,5-trihydroxyphenethyl)amino]-propyl]theophylline (reproterol) in human urine, which is reportedly misused by athletes and horses as a doping agent, is presented. The study was performed after an oral administration of 20 mg of reproterol hydrochloride. The collected urine samples were prepared using the standard anabolic steroid extraction procedure and analyzed by gas chromatography coupled with quadrupole mass spectrometry and, also, with high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS). The main reproterol metabolite was found, whereas unchanged reproterol was not detected. The structure of the main metabolite was confirmed by an accurate HRMS measurement of diagnostic ions. Finally, an excretion urine profile of the main metabolite is presented. The mass spectrum of another possible unidentified reproterol metabolite is also reported.
10348185	Simultaneous determination of local anesthetics including ester-type anesthetics in human plasma and urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry with solid-phase extraction.	The present study describes the simultaneous determination of seven different kinds of local anesthetics and one metabolite by GC-MS with solid-state extraction: Mepivacaine, propitocaine, lidocaine, procaine (an ester-type local anesthetics), cocaine, tetracaine (an ester-type local anesthetics), dibucaine (Dib) and monoethylglycinexylidide (a metabolite of lidocaine) were clearly separated from each other and simultaneously determined by GC-MS using a DB-1 open tubular column. Their recoveries ranged from 73-95% at the target concentrations of 1.00, 10.0 and 100 microg/ml in plasma, urine and water. Coefficients of variation of the recoveries ranged from 2.3-13.1% at these concentrations. The quantitation limits of the method were approximately 100 ng/ml for monoethylglycinexylidide, propitocaine, procaine, cocaine, tetracaine and dibucaine, and 50 ng/ml for lidocaine and mepivacaine. This method was applied to specimens of patients who had been treated with drip infusion of lidocaine, and revealed that simultaneous determination of lidocaine and monoethylglycinexylidide in the blood and urine was possible.
10354960	Nortriptyline E-10-hydroxylation in vitro is mediated by human CYP2D6 (high affinity) and CYP3A4 (low affinity): implications for interactions with enzyme-inducing drugs.	The human cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms mediating nortriptyline 10-hydroxylation have been identified using kinetic studies on heterologously expressed human CYPs and chemical inhibition studies on human liver microsomes. Nortriptyline was metabolized to E-10-hydroxynortriptyline by human lymphoblast-expressed CYPs 2D6 (Km 2.1 microM) and 3A4 (Km 37.4 microM) with high and low affinity, respectively, whereas CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, and 2E1 had no detectable activity. Human liver microsomal nortriptyline E-10-hydroxylation displayed biphasic kinetics. The high-affinity component (Km 1.3 +/- 0.4 microM, n = 11 livers) was selectively inhibited by the CYP 2D6 inhibitor quinidine, whereas the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole selectively inhibited the low-affinity component (K(m) 24.4 +/- 7 microM, n = 11 livers). Inhibition by ketoconazole increased with increasing substrate concentration, whereas the reverse was true for quinidine. The Vmax of the low-affinity component in human liver microsomes was significantly correlated (r2 = 0.84) with the relative activity factor for CYP3A4, a measure of the amount of catalytically active enzyme. A simulation of the relative contribution of CYPs 2D6 and 3A4 to net nortriptyline hydroxylation rate suggested that the relative contribution of CYP3A4 is only 20% even at the higher end of the therapeutic range. Induction of CYP3A4 will increase its importance and increase the net metabolic rate, whereas inhibition of CYP3A4 will be of little importance due to its minimal relative contribution under uninduced conditions. The identification of CYP3A4 as a low-affinity nortriptyline E-10-hydroxylase explains the ability of poor metabolizers of debrisoquin to hydroxylate nortriptyline, as well as the increased in vivo clearance via this pathway caused by CYP3A4-inducing drugs such as pentobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin.
10365640	No pharmacokinetic but pharmacodynamic interactions between cisapride and bromperidol or haloperidol.	Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between the gastrokinetic drug cisapride and the antipsychotic drugs bromperidol and haloperidol were studied in 29 schizophrenic inpatients. Fourteen patients were taking bromperidol (12-24 mg/d), and 15 were taking haloperidol (12-36 mg/d). Cisapride 10 mg/d was coadministered for 1 week, and blood sampling was performed before cisapride treatment, 1 week after starting cisapride treatment, and I week after stopping cisapride treatment. On the same days as the blood sampling, psychotic symptoms and side effects were evaluated using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersgelser (UKU) side effect rating scale (UKU), respectively. Plasma concentrations of bromperidol, haloperidol, and their reduced metabolites were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. The mean BPRS scores after adding cisapride were significantly higher than those before cisapride (p<0.01) and after stopping cisapride (p<0.001) in the haloperidol group in this uncontrolled study. A similar tendency was observed in the bromperidol group, although it did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.08). Cisapride coadministration caused no significant changes in the mean plasma concentrations of bromperidol, haloperidol, and their reduced metabolites or in the mean UKU score. The present study suggests that there is no significant pharmacokinetic interaction between cisapride and bromperidol or haloperidol, but cisapride appears to deteriorate psychotic symptoms by a pharmacodynamic interaction in schizophrenic patients treated with haloperidol.
10365644	Determination of buspirone and 1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine (1-PP) in human plasma by capillary gas chromatography.	Two separate gas chromatographic methods for the determination of buspirone and its active metabolite, 1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine (1-PP) in human plasma are described. Both procedures involve solid-phase extraction (the packing material of the cartridges used was C8 for buspirone and a mixed-mode sorbent for 1-PP), injection of the sample into a gas chromatograph equipped with a fused-silica capillary column and a nitrogen-phosphorus detector, and analysis with temperature programming (from 220 degrees C to 285 degrees C for buspirone and from 138 degrees C to 285 degrees C for 1-PP). The coating material of the analytical column was 5% diphenyl dimethyl silicone for buspirone and 50% diphenyl dimethyl silicone for 1-PP. Zolpidem was used as an internal standard in the buspirone assay and 1-phenylpiperazine in the 1-PP assay. Recovery of buspirone and 1-PP averaged 98% and 89%, respectively, and the limit of quantification was 0.2 ng/mL for both compounds. The between-run coefficients of variation ranged from 3.2% to 9.4% and from 2.9% to 8.6% for samples spiked with three different concentrations of buspirone and 1-PP, respectively. The suitability of these assays for pharmacokinetic studies was shown by analyzing timed plasma samples from volunteers after ingestion of a single therapeutic dose of buspirone (10 mg).
10369322	Nail analysis for drugs of abuse: extraction and determination of cannabis in fingernails by RIA and GC-MS.	Fingernail clippings were evaluated as analytical specimens for the detection and quantitation of cannabinoids. Specimens were obtained from consenting adults attending a drug clinic, along with information concerning the drugs which they had used over the previous six months. Methods for the surface decontamination and extraction of the specimens were evaluated. Detergent, water, and methanol washes followed by alkaline hydrolysis and liquid-liquid extraction were selected for use in the study. Extracts were analyzed by radioimmunoassay (RIA) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to detect and quantitate cannabinoids present in fingernail clippings. Positive RIA results were obtained from specimens from six known cannabis users. The mean cannabinoid concentration in fingernail clippings determined by RIA was 1.03 ng/mg. Using GC-MS, the mean delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentration in fingernail clippings from a further 14 known cannabis users was 1.44 ng/mg. Using GC-MS, the average 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid concentration in fingernail clippings from three known cannabis users extracted in acidic pH was 19.85 ng/mg. Based on these results, fingernails are potentially useful biological specimens for the detection of past cannabis use in cases of medicolegal interest.
10369327	GC-MS confirmation of codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone in urine.	A procedure for the simultaneous confirmation of codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone in urine specimens by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) is described. After the addition of nalorphine and naltrexone as the two internal standards, the urine is hydrolyzed overnight with beta-glucuronidase from E. coli. The urine is adjusted to pH 9 and extracted with 8% trifluoroethanol in methylene dichloride. After evaporating the organic, the residue is sequentially derivatized with 2% methoxyamine in pyridine, then with propionic anhydride. The ketone groups on hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, oxymorphone, and naltrexone are converted to their respective methoximes. Available hydroxyl groups on the O3 and O6 positions are converted to propionic esters. After a brief purification step, the extracts are analyzed by GC-MS using full scan electron impact ionization. Nalorphine is used as the internal standard for codeine, morphine, and 6-acetylmorphine; naltrexone is used as the internal standard for the 6-keto-opioids. The method is linear to 2000 ng/mL for the 6-keto-opioids and to 5000 ng/mL for the others. The limit of quantitation is 25 ng/mL in hydrolyzed urine. Day-to-day precision at 300 and 1500 ng/mL ranged between 6 and 10.9%. The coefficients of variation for 6-acetylmorphine were 12% at both 30 and 150 ng/mL. A list of 38 other basic drugs or metabolites detected by this method is tabulated.
10369328	Amphetamine and fenproporex levels following multidose administration of fenproporex.	Drugs that are metabolized to amphetamine or methamphetamine are potentially of significant concern in the interpretation of positive drug-testing results for amphetamines. A number of different drugs have been reported to produce amphetamine in the urine of users. One of these compounds, fenproporex, has been shown to be metabolized to amphetamine, and previous reports indicated the parent compound could be detected at low levels for up to 48 h. Administration of fenproporex for seven days (one 10-mg dose per day) to five healthy volunteers resulted in amphetamine being detected in the urine of all subjects. Peak concentrations of amphetamine ranged from approximately 2850 to 4150 ng/mL. Amphetamine could be detected (> or = 5 ng/mL) in the urine for up to nearly 170 h after the last dose. Analysis of the metabolically produced amphetamine showed the presence of both enantiomers, which can be helpful in the differentiation of some illicit amphetamine use from the use of this precursor drug. In addition, evaluation of the enantiomeric composition of the metabolite (amphetamine) can be a valuable tool in the interpretation of time since last dose. More significantly, all samples that contained amphetamine at a concentration of > or = 500 ng/mL were shown to also contain detectable amounts of the parent compound.
10375008	Preclinical and in vitro assessment of the potential of D0870, an antifungal agent, for producing clinical drug interactions.	1. D0870, an azole antifungal agent, produced dose-related increases in total cytochrome P450 and aldrin epoxidase when administered as 14 daily oral doses (0, 0.5, 2.5 and 12.5 mg/kg/day) to the male rat. Administered as single doses, D0870 increased pentobarbitone-sleeping time in a dose-related manner. 2. In human hepatic microsomal incubations, D0870 produced pronounced inhibition of CYP2C9 (tolbutamide hydroxylase) and, to a lesser degree, CYP3A4 (testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase), but had more limited effects on CYP1A2, 2C19 and 2D6 activity. In comparison with ketoconazole, itraconazole and fluconazole, D0870 was the most potent inhibitor of CYP2C9 activity. It is predicted that D0870 may inhibit the in vivo clearance of CYP2C9 substrates by approximately 58%, thereby increasing their steady-state concentrations by 2.4 times, which would be of clinical significance for some compounds. 3. During incubation of [14C]-D0870 with cultured human hepatocytes for up to 72 h, two discrete metabolites (A and B) were formed. Formation of metabolite A was abolished by both quinidine and ketoconazole and is probably CYP3A4-mediated, whereas generation of metabolite B did not appear to be dependent on cytochrome P450. 4. D0870 has potential to produce both induction and inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes in man.
10399883	In vitro evaluation of aromatase enzyme in granulosa cells using a [11C]vorozole binding assay.	An in vitro method for measuring aromatase cytochrome P450 enzyme (P450AROM) in human granulosa cells (GC) has been developed, based on binding of the 11C-labeled aromatase inhibitor vorozole. GC were obtained following superstimulation during in vitro fertilisation. The method revealed a binding affinity (Kd) of 0.4 nM and a maximum binding (Bmax) at 11 fmol/4000 cells which is equal to 1.6 million binding sites per cell. Linear Scatchard plots indicated a single type of binding site. P450AROM concentrations measured by [11C]vorozole binding correlated positively with aromatisation of [1beta-3H]androst-4-ene-3,17-dione measured as [3H]water release, and a positive association was also found with the ovarian in vivo response to follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) stimulation expressed as 1000 times the ratio of the number of oocytes recovered from a patient and the total dose of recombinant FSH administered. Frozen cells could be used for P450AROM quantitation, provided the correct freezing procedure was used. Quantitation of P450AROM, based on binding of [11C]vorozole is an accurate and sensitive in vitro method, which might be extended to the measurement of aromatase expression by a noninvasive technique in the intact ovary in vivo using positron emission tomography.
10403533	Doxazosin treatment and peroxidation of low-density lipoprotein among male hypertensive subjects: in vitro and ex vivo studies.	Doxazosin is an antihypertensive drug that gives rise to 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin during hepatic metabolism. The structures of the hydroxymetabolites suggest that they may possess antioxidative properties. The aim of the present study was to examine whether doxazosin and 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin were able to scavenge free radicals and whether these compounds might protect low-density lipoprotein (LDL) against in vitro and ex vivo oxidation. Both 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin showed radical scavenging capacity as assessed by measuring scavenging of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radicals. In vitro incubation with 10 microM 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin significantly reduced human mononuclear cell-mediated oxidation of LDL, measured as the formation of lipid peroxides and the relative electrophoretic mobility of LDL (to 10 and 6% of the control, respectively). Furthermore, formation of conjugated dienes in LDL during Cu2+-induced oxidation was significantly reduced in the presence of 5 microM 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin (to 28% of tmax [time to maximum] of control). However, treatment of hypertensive patients with increasing doses of doxazosin (from 1 to 8 mg/day) for 8 weeks altered neither Cu2+-catalyzed, 2,2'azobis-(2-amidinopropane hydrochloride)-initiated, nor cell-mediated oxidation of patient LDL ex vivo. Furthermore, the total antioxidative capacity of plasma was unaffected by treatment. In conclusion, the present study shows that 6- and 7-hydroxydoxazosin have radical scavenging properties and protect LDL against in vitro oxidation. However, treatment of hypertensive male subjects with increasing doses of doxazosin for 8 weeks did not affect ex vivo oxidation of LDL.
10404632	Testing for anabolic steroids in hair from two bodybuilders.	Two male bodybuilders were recently arrested by the French customs in Strasbourg (France) in possession of 2050 tablets and 251 ampoules of various anabolic steroids. It was claimed that the steroids were for personal use and not for trafficing as suggested by the police. Urine and hair specimens were collected from both suspects to clarify the claims. Nandrolone, stanozolol, testosterone and their corresponding metabolites were identified in the urine of both subjects. After decontamination, the hair was hydrolyzed by sodium hydroxide in presence of deuterated internal standards. After extraction with ethyl acetate and silylation, the drugs were identified by GC-MS in the electron impact mode. Hair from both males were positive for nandrolone (196 and 260 pg/mg), testosterone (46 and 71 pg/mg) and stanozolol (135 and 156 pg/mg), clearly indicating steroids abuse. Although not yet recognized by the International Olympic Committee, hair analysis may be a useful adjunct to conventional drug testing in urine from athletes.
10406210	Simultaneous quantitative determination of cilostazol and its metabolites in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for the simultaneous determination of cilostazol, a quinolinone derivative, and its known metabolites OPC-13015, OPC-13213, OPC-13217, OPC-13366, OPC-13269, OPC-13326 and OPC-13388 in human plasma was developed and validated. Cilostazol, its metabolites and two internal standards, OPC-3930 and OPC-13112, were extracted from human plasma by a combination of liquid-liquid and liquid-solid phase extractions, with combined organic solvents of n-butanol, methanol, chloroform, methyl-tert.-butyl ether, and a Sep-Pak silica column. The combined extract was then evaporated and the residue was reconstituted in ammonium acetate buffer (pH 6.5). The reconstituted solution was injected onto a HPLC system and was subjected to reversed-phase HPLC on a 5 microm ODS-80TM column to obtain quality chromatograph and good peak resolution. A gradient mobile phase with different percentages of acetonitrile in acetate buffer (pH 6.5) was used for the resolution of analytes. Cilostazol, its metabolites and the two internal standards were well separated at baseline from each other with resolution factor being 74 and 138. This HPLC method was demonstrated to be specific for all analytes of interest with no significant interference from the endogenous substances of human plasma. The lower limit of quantitation was 20 ng/ml for cilostazol and all metabolites. The method was validated initially for an extended linear range of 20-600 ng/ml for all metabolites and cilostazol, and has been revised later for a linear range of 20-1200 ng/ml for cilostazol and two major and active metabolites OPC-13015 and OPC-13213. The overall accuracy (relative recovery) of this method was established to be 98.5% to 104.9% for analytes with overall precision (CV) being 1.5% to 9.0%. The long-term stability of clinical plasma samples was established for at least one year at -20 degrees C. Two internal standards of OPC-3930 and OPC-13112 were evaluated and validated. However, the data indicated that there was no significant difference for all accuracy and precision obtained by using either OPC-3930 or OPC-13112. OPC-3930 was chosen as the internal standard for the analysis of plasma samples from clinical studies due to its shorter retention time. During the validation standard curves had correlation coefficients greater than or equal to 0.998 for cilostazol and the seven metabolites. These data clearly demonstrate the reliability and reproducibility of the method.
10408839	CPT-11 converting carboxylesterase and topoisomerase activities in tumour and normal colon and liver tissues.	CPT-11 is a prodrug activated by carboxylesterases to the active metabolite SN-38 which is a potent inhibitor of topoisomerase I. CPT-11 is of clinical interest in the treatment of colorectal cancer. We evaluated the activities of CPT-11 converting carboxylesterase (CPT-CE) and topoisomerase I (topo I) in 53 colorectal tumours, in eight liver metastases and in normal tissue adjacent to the tumours. Both CPT-CE and topo I activities were widely variable in the malignant and the normal tissue of patients with colorectal carcinomas. CPT-CE was only two to threefold lower in primary tumours compared to normal liver, suggesting that a local conversion to SN-38 might occur in tumour cells. CPT-CE was similar in liver and in normal colon tissues. Levels of topo I in tumour ranged from 580 to 84 900 U mg protein(-1) and was above 40 000 U mg protein(-1) in 11 of 53 patients. Similarly, a very high ratio (> 5) between tumour and normal tissues were observed in 12 of 53 patients. An inverse correlation was observed between the topo I activity and the clinical stage of disease. Clinical studies are in progress in our institution to explore a possible relationship between CPT-CE and topo I activities in tumour cells and the response to CPT-11-based chemotherapy in patients with colorectal cancer.
10410955	Determination of cyclophosphamide and its metabolites in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A sensitive HPLC-MS method was developed for the simultaneous determination of cyclophosphamide and its metabolites 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (aldocyclophosphamide), 4-ketocyclophosphamide, caboxyphosphamide and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide in human plasma. 4-Hydroxycyclophosphamide was converted with methylhydroxylamine to the stable methyloxime form. We used a solid-phase extraction with C18 cartridges followed by HPLC-MS with the single mass spectrometer SSQ 7000 of Finnigan. The limits of detection were 15 ng/ml for cyclophosphamide, 3-dechloroethylifosfamide and ketocyclophosphamide in each case and 30 ng/ml for carboxyphosphamide and 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, respectively. First results of pharmacokinetics are shown.
10414794	The role of metabolism in determining susceptibility to parathion toxicity in man.	Human liver microsomes (n = 16) activated parathion (O, O, diethyl O-p-nitrophenyl phosphorothioate, 20 and 200 microM) to paraoxon at a rate of 23.3-199.3 and 18.7-310.3 pmol/min per mg protein, respectively. p-Nitrophenol, was also formed, at 321.1-769.2 and 406.2-778.3 pmol/min per mg protein. This represented a 16-fold and 2-fold range in capacity to activate and detoxify parathion, respectively. Parathion was activated with an apparent Km of 9-16 microM (n = 3). The activation of parathion (200 microM) was positively correlated with nifedipine oxidation, indicating the involvement of CYP3A. Correlations were not significant with ethoxyresorufin-O-dealkylation (CYP1A1/2), pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylation (CYP2B6), p-nitrophenol hydroxylation (CYP2E1), paraoxon hydrolysis (A-esterase) or phenylvalerate hydrolysis (B-esterase). Paraoxon formation from parathion was markedly reduced by CYP3A inhibitors. Experiments with EDTA indicated that A-esterase was not functionally important at low levels of paraoxon. Human P450s 3A4 and 3A5 expressed microsomes were the most efficient at biotransforming parathion to paraoxon, although P450s 1A1, 2B6 and 2C8 also catalysed the reaction. This study has determined wide interindividual variations in capacity to metabolise parathion, mainly by CYP3A, which may influence its manifest toxicity.
10424321	Inhibition of thiopurine S-methyltransferase activity by impurities in commercially available substrates: a factor for differing results of TPMT measurements.	Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity, when measured in red blood cells (RBC) with a recently published TPMT activity assay using 6-thioguanine (6-TG) as substrate, could not be reproduced in another laboratory. We investigated factors which could influence the results of the TPMT activity measurement. We tested twelve 6-TG and four 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) compounds from different suppliers as substrates and determined the enzyme kinetic parameters Km and Vmax. Furthermore, we studied the influence of different 6-TG compounds on the affinity of the methyl donor S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) to the TPMT enzyme. All 6-TG products were of equal purity (declared >98% by the supplier): this was ascertained by HPLC. However, the rate of methylation obtained following incubation with 6-TG from different suppliers ranged from 10% to 100% when incubated with the same RBC lysate. The lowest apparent Km value for a 6-TG was 22.3 micromol x l(-1), while the product with the highest methylation rate showed a Km of 156 micromol x l(-1). From these results we assume that there is a contaminant in some 6-TG products, which acts as a strong inhibitor of TPMT activity. Compounds possibly used for the synthesis of 6-TG (guanine, pyridine, 6-chloroguanine) did not affect the methylation rate. Thioxanthine, which is known to be a strong inhibitor of TPMT when added to the assay system to give a 2% contamination, reduced TPMT activity from 100% to 72%. Using 6-MP from different suppliers as substrate resulted in Km values ranging from 110 to 162 micromol x l(-1) and Vmox values ranging from 54 to 68 nmol 6-MMP x g(-1)Hb x h(-1). The Km value for the methyl donor SAM was similar to and independent from the thiopurine substrates tested (range 4.9-11 micromol-l(-1) SAM). In contrast to other investigators, we found non-enzymatic S-methylation, which was negligible under our assay conditions (3% with 128 micromol x l(-1) SAM), but could become relevant in experiments using higher SAM concentrations. TPMT enzyme activity determined with 6-TG as substrate may be strongly inhibited by a contaminant in some of the 6-TG lots distributed.
10429839	The low potential for drug interactions with zanamivir.	The objective of this study was to assess the potential of zanamivir, a specific inhibitor of influenza A and B virus neuraminidase, to interact with other coadministered therapies in the clinical setting. Potential interactions with zanamivir were examined in a series of in vitro and in vivo model systems. The expression of microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes was examined after daily treatment of rats with intravenous zanamivir. The ability of zanamivir to inhibit the metabolism of CYP probe substrates was studied in human liver microsomes. The binding of zanamivir to human and animal red blood cell fractions and plasma proteins was measured. Finally, the effect of commonly coadministered drugs on the ability of zanamivir to inhibit viral replication in vitro was tested. Zanamivir had no effect on the expression of microsomal CYP isoenzymes after daily intravenous treatment of rats with zanamivir 1, 9 or 90 mg/kg for 5 weeks. Zanamivir at concentrations up to 500 mumol/L (150 mg/L) had no effect on the metabolism of the CYP probe substrates bufuralol, chlorzoxazone, coumarin, ethoxyresorufin, mephenytoin, midazolam, phenacetin and tolbutamide by human liver microsomes. The binding of zanamivir 0.05 to 10 mg/L to human, dog and rat red blood cells and plasma proteins was low. The in vitro potency of zanamivir against influenza virus in Madin Darby canine kidney cells was not adversely affected by aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) 1.2 mmol/L, paracetamol (acetaminophen) 6.6 mmol/L, ibuprofen 243 mumol/L, phenylephrine 6 mmol/L, oxymetazoline 380 mumol/L, promethazine 35 mumol/L and co-amoxiclav (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) 1.66 mmol/L. These data suggest the following: (i) there is no theoretical basis for expecting metabolic interactions between zanamivir and other coadministered compounds; (ii) zanamivir is unlikely to interact with coadministered compounds that are protein bound; and (iii) commonly coadministered drugs will not interfere with the antiviral activity of zanamivir in vivo. Although none of these in vitro or in vivo studies were exhaustive, and although none were performed in humans, all the data are consistent with zanamivir having a very low potential for interactions with coadministered drugs in the clinical setting.
10437670	Simultaneous determination of the urinary metabolites of toluene, xylene and styrene using high-performance capillary electrophoresis. Comparison with high-performance liquid chromatography.	A simple and rapid method using high-performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE) for the simultaneous determination of the urinary metabolites of toluene, xylene and styrene, plus creatinine and uric acid in human urine specimens and standard solutions is described. The compounds were well separated from each other on a fused-silica capillary utilizing a 20 mM sodium tetraborate buffer (pH 9.65) with 15 mM beta-cyclodextrin and UV detection at 200 and 225 nm. The total analysis time was less than 6 min per sample. The capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) method shows a good correlation with the high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with respect to urinary hippuric acid concentrations in the urine specimens of subjects exposed to the vapors of a solvent mixture of toluene and xylene. In comparing these two techniques, HPCE was found to be superior to HPLC because the analysis time is shorter, and the separation of m-MHA and p-MHA takes a long time with HPLC.
10440465	Detection of the novel metabolite ethylphenidate after methylphenidate overdose with alcohol coingestion.	Methylphenidate is the most commonly prescribed psychostimulant in clinical use today. Known methylphenidate metabolites include ritalinic acid, corresponding lactams, and p-hydroxymethylphenidate. Recent in vitro work using rat liver preparations has indicated that the methylphenidate ethyl ester, ethylphenidate, is formed upon incubation with ethanol. This report describes the first detection of ethylphenidate in human blood and liver samples obtained from two suicide victims who had overdosed on methylphenidate and coingested ethanol. Amounts of ethylphenidate detected in whole blood specimens in these two cases (8 ng/mL and 1 ng/mL, respectively) were small relative to methylphenidate and ritalinic acid concentrations. Nonetheless, given the high likelihood that methylphenidate and ethanol coingestion frequently occurs, the detection of ethylphenidate in humans warrants further investigation into the extent of its formation as well as into any associated toxicity in nonoverdose situations.
10445490	Determination of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in urine and hair by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Buprenorphine, which is used in France as a substitution drug for opioid addiction, is widely abused, and several fatal cases have been reported. In order to confirm a recent intoxication or to establish retrospectively chronic abuse, a simple and reliable gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method was developed and validated for quantitation of buprenorphine and its active metabolite norbuprenorphine in urine and hair. Two milliliters of urine or 50 mg of pulverized hair was submitted to a pretreatment (enzymatic hydrolysis for urine and decontamination with dichloromethane followed by incubation in 0.1 M HCI for hair). Buprenorphine-d4 was chosen as the internal standard. Selective solid-phase extraction with Bond Elut Certify columns provided recoveries higher than 85% for urine and 43% for hair. By using a mixture of MSTFA/TMSIM/TMCS (100:2:5), buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine produced stable silylated derivatives. The detection was carried out with a quadrupole mass detector working in El selected ion monitoring mode. Ions at m/z 450 and 468 were chosen for the quantitation of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, respectively (m/z 454 was used for the internal standard). Limits of quantitation were 0.25 and 0.20 ng/mL, respectively, for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in urine and 0.005 ng/mg for the two compounds in hair. Calibration curves were linear from 0 to 50 ng/mL in urine and from 0 to 0.4 ng/mg in hair. Between-day and within-day precisions were less than 8.4% in hair and 6.1% in urine for both molecules in all cases. This method was applied to urine and hair samples collected from patients in a withdrawal treatment program and demonstrated its good applicability in routine analysis and its benefit for clinicians. This technique, which requires instruments already available to many toxicology laboratories, offers an attractive alternative to more sophisticated techniques.
10456490	Grapefruit juice has no effect on quinine pharmacokinetics.	As quinine is mainly metabolised by human liver CYP3A4 and grapefruit juice inhibits CYP3A4, the effect of grapefruit juice on the pharmacokinetics of quinine following a single oral dose of 600 mg quinine sulphate was investigated. The study was carried out in ten healthy volunteers using a randomised cross-over design. Subjects were studied on three occasions, with a washout period of 2 weeks. During each period, subjects received a pretreatment of 200 ml orange juice (control), full-strength grapefruit juice or half-strength grapefruit juice twice daily for 5 days. On day 6, the subjects were given a single oral dose of 600 mg quinine sulphate with 200 ml of one of the juices. Plasma and urine samples for measurement of quinine and its major metabolite, 3-hydroxyquinine, were collected over a 48-h period and analysed by means of a high-performance liquid chromatography method. The intake of grapefruit juice did not significantly alter the oral pharmacokinetics of quinine. There were no significant differences among the three treatment periods with regard to pharmacokinetic parameters of quinine, including the peak plasma drug concentration (Cmax), the time to reach Cmax (tmax), the terminal elimination half-life (t1/2), the area under the concentration-time curve and the apparent oral clearance. The pharmacokinetics of the 3-hydroxyquinine metabolite were slightly changed when volunteers received grapefruit juice. The mean Cmax of the metabolite (0.25+/-0.09 mg l(-1), mean +/- SD) while subjects received full-strength grapefruit juice was significantly less than during the control period (0.31+/-0.06 mg l(-1), P < 0.05) and during the intake of half-strength grapefruit juice (0.31+/-0.07 mg l(-1), P < 0.05). These results suggest that there is no significant interaction between the parent compound quinine and grapefruit juice, so it is not necessary to advise patients against ingesting grapefruit juice at the same time that they take quinine. Since quinine is a low clearance drug with a relatively high oral bioavailability, and is primarily metabolised by human liver CYP3A4, the lack of effect of grapefruit juice on quinine pharmacokinetics supports the view that the site of CYP inhibition by grapefruit juice is mainly in the gut.
10456690	Involvement of CYP2D6 in the in vitro metabolism of amphetamine, two N-alkylamphetamines and their 4-methoxylated derivatives.	1. Amphetamine (AM) and five amphetamine derivatives, N-ethylamphetamine (NEA), N-butylamphetamine (NBA), 4-methoxyamphetamine (M-AM), 4-methoxy-N-ethylamphetamine (M-NEA) and 4-methoxy-N-butylamphetamine (M-NBA) were incubated with microsomal preparations from cells expressing human CYP2D6 to determine whether the enzyme was capable of catalyzing the direct ring oxidation of all substrates; the N-dealkylation of NEA, NBA, M-NEA and M-NBA; and the O-demethylation of M-AM, M-NEA and M-NBA. 2. None of the six compounds examined was N-dealkylated to any extent. 3. The only metabolites produced from AM, NEA and NBA were the corresponding ring 4-hydroxylated compounds, and the rates of formation were low. 4. All ring 4-methoxylated substrates were efficiently O-demethylated by CYP2D6 to their corresponding phenols. The size of the N-alkyl group influenced the rates of formation of these phenolamines. In contrast to reported findings with 2- and 3-methoxyamphetamines, none of the 4-methoxyamphetamines was ring-oxidized in the CYP2D6 enzyme system to 2- or 3-hydroxy-4-methoxyamphetamines or to dihydroxyamphetamines.
10460069	Clomipramine dose-effect study in patients with depression: clinical end points and pharmacokinetics. Danish University Antidepressant Group (DUAG).	To examine the problems of establishing dose-effect and concentration-effect relationships of antidepressant therapy with clomipramine. This randomized double-blind study compared five fixed doses of clomipramine hydrochloride: 25, 50, 75, 125, and 200 mg/day in hospitalized or day patients at nine clinical centers in Denmark. A 1-week washout period was followed by 6 weeks of active treatment and weekly depression ratings. In total, 151 patients (100 women and 51 men) with major depression scoring > or =18 on the Hamilton Depression Scale (HDS) or > or =9 on the Hamilton Depression subscale (HDSS) before and after the washout period were randomized. The treatment groups (n = 29 to 32) were well balanced with respect to sex, age, and depression rating. Serum concentrations of clomipramine plus metabolites were measured at weekly intervals. A sparteine test was performed before and during drug treatment. There was pronounced interpatient variability in response and kinetics at each dose. Drop-outs attributable to adverse events increased with rising doses, whereas drop-outs caused by worsening or lack of effect or nonresponse declined with increasing dose. Completer analyses showed a moderate and statistically significant relationship between depression rating and dose at all ratings after 1 to 6 weeks of treatment (trend analysis). HDS items representing core symptoms of depression showed a particularly consistent dose-effect relationship. Early sustained response occurred more frequently with the two highest doses. Serum levels of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine showed weak correlation with depression ratings (Rs = -0.18 to -0.27; P < .05 to P < .01). A few blood pressure measurements and a few typical side-effect ratings showed a statistically significant dose-effect and concentration-effect relationship. Serum concentration of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine showed a pronounced disproportionate increase with increasing dose. Clomipramine inhibited in a dose-dependent fashion CYP2D6 (sparteine oxidation). The dose-effect curves, indicating the probability of a certain outcome at a given dose, were flat and overlapping suggesting a narrow therapeutic range. This pattern is similar to that observed with newer antidepressants.
10468218	Peripheral markers of oxidative stress in Parkinson's disease. The role of L-DOPA.	Oxidative stress plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). L-DOPA, the gold standard in PD therapy, may paradoxically contribute to the progression of the disease because of its pro-oxidant properties. The issue, however, is controversial. In this study, we evaluated peripheral markers of oxidative stress in normal subjects, untreated PD patients and PD patients treated only with L-DOPA. We also measured platelet and plasma levels of L-DOPA, 3-O-methyldopa (the long-lasting metabolite of the drug), and dopamine. We found that isolated platelets of treated PD patients form higher amounts of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate, an index of hydroxyl radical generation, than platelets of controls or untreated patients. In treated patients, platelet levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate were positively correlated with platelet levels of L-DOPA, 3-O-methyldopa, and with the score of disease severity. Disease severity was correlated with platelet and plasma levels of L-DOPA, as well as with the daily intake of the drug. No significant differences in platelet levels of cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms of the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase were found between PD patients, either treated or untreated, and controls. Our findings lend further support to the hypothesis that L-DOPA might promote free radical formation in PD patients.
10472315	Role of individual susceptibility in risk assessment of pesticides.	This study presents criteria for assessing the individual pesticide burden of workers in the chemical industry. A group of 1003 workers exposed to methylparathion or ethylparathion (alkyl phosphates), propoxur (carbamate), or cyfluthrin (pyrethroid) was investigated. After exposure to methylparathion or ethylparathion the methylparathion or ethylparathion and methylparaoxon or ethylparaoxon concentrations in plasma, the p-nitrophenol concentration in urine, and the activities of cholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase were measured. For exposure to propoxur the propoxur concentration in plasma, the 2-isopropoxyphenol concentration in urine, and the cholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase activities were measured. For exposure to cyfluthrin the cyfluthrin concentration in plasma was measured. At the same propoxur concentration only workers with a low individual acetylcholinesterase activity reported symptoms. Workers who metabolised cyfluthrin rapidly reported less symptoms than workers with a lower rate of metabolism. This tendency was also evident in cases of mixed exposure (cyfluthrin and methylparathion). In the assessment of exposure to pesticides susceptibility of the individual person has to be considered.
10492058	Effect of fluvoxamine on the pharmacokinetics of quinidine.	To investigate the possible involvement of cytochromes CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 in the in vivo oxidative metabolism of quinidine. This was an open study of six healthy young male volunteers. The pharmacokinetics of a 200-mg single oral dose of quinidine were studied before and during daily treatment with 100 mg fluvoxamine. Biomarkers of other isozyme activities in the form of caffeine, sparteine, mephenytoin, tolbutamide and cortisol metabolism were applied. The results showed a statistically significant median reduction of 2944% in the quinidine total apparent oral clearance, partial clearances by 3-hydroxylation and N-oxidation and residual clearance during fluvoxamine treatment. Renal clearance was unaffected by fluvoxamine. The effect of fluvoxamine on the formation clearances of 3-hydroxyquinidine and quinidine-N-oxide most likely reflects inhibition of cytochrome P4503A4 by fluvoxamine at clinically relevant doses. The results of this study do not rule out a possible involvement of CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 in the in vivo oxidative metabolism of quinidine.
10503898	Detoxification of carcinogenic aromatic and heterocyclic amines by enzymatic reduction of the N-hydroxy derivative.	The metabolic activation pathways associated with carcinogenic aromatic and heterocyclic amines have long been known to involve N-oxidation, catalyzed primarily by cytochrome P4501A2, and subsequent O-esterification, often catalyzed by acetyltransferases (NATs) and sulfotransferases (SULTs). We have found a new enzymatic mechanism of carcinogen detoxification: a microsomal NADH-dependent reductase that rapidly converts the N-hydroxy arylamine back to the parent amine. The following N-OH-arylamines and N-OH-heterocyclic amines were rapidly reduced by both human and rat liver microsomes: NOH-4-aminoazobenzene, N-OH-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-ABP), N-OH-aniline, N-OH-2-naphthylamine, N-OH-2-aminofluorene, N-OH-4,4'-methylenebis(2-chloroaniline) (N-OH-MOCA), N-OH-1-naphthyamine, N-OH-2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (N-OH-PhIP), N-OH-2-amino-alpha-carboline (N-OH-AalphaC), N-OH-2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (N-OH-MeIQx), and N-OH-2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (N-OH-IQ). In addition, primary rat hepatocytes and human HepG2 cells efficiently reduced N-OH-PhIP to PhIP. This previously unrecognized detoxification pathway may limit the bioavailability of carcinogenic N-OH heterocyclic and aromatic amines for further activation, DNA adduct formation, and carcinogenesis.
10510156	Characterization of the cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the in vitro metabolism of rosiglitazone.	To identify the human cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) involved in the in vitro metabolism of rosiglitazone, a potential oral antidiabetic agent for the treatment of type 2 diabetes-mellitus. Method The specific P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of rosiglitazone were determined by a combination of three approaches; multiple regression analysis of the rates of metabolism of rosiglitazone in human liver microsomes against selective P450 substrates, the effect of selective chemical inhibitors on rosiglitazone metabolism and the capability of expressed P450 enzymes to mediate the major metabolic routes of rosiglitazone metabolism. Result The major products of metabolism following incubation of rosiglitazone with human liver microsomes were para-hydroxy and N-desmethyl rosiglitazone. The rate of formation varied over 38-fold in the 47 human livers investigated and correlated with paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylation (P<0.001). Formation of these metabolites was inhibited significantly (>50%) by 13-cis retinoic acid, a CYP2C8 inhibitor, but not by furafylline, quinidine or ketoconazole. In addition, both metabolites were produced by microsomes derived from a cell line transfected with human CYP2C8 cDNA. There was some evidence for CYP2C9 playing a minor role in the metabolism of rosiglitazone. Sulphaphenazole caused limited inhibition (<30%) of both pathways in human liver microsomes and microsomes from cells transfected with CYP2C9 cDNA were able to mediate the metabolism of rosiglitazone, in particular the N-demethylation pathway, albeit at a much slower rate than CYP2C8. Rosiglitazone caused moderate inhibition of paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylase activity (CYP2C8; IC50=18 microm ), weak inhibition of tolbutamide hydroxylase activity (CYP2C9; IC50=50 microm ), but caused no marked inhibition of the other cytochrome P450 activities investigated (CYP1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A and 4A). Conclusion CYP2C8 is primarily responsible for the hydroxylation and N-demethylation of rosiglitazone in human liver; with minor contributions from CYP2C9.
10510747	Characterization of lidocaine metabolism by rat nasal microsomes: implications for nasal drug delivery.	Lidocaine has been recently approved for use as an intranasal spray in the treatment of migraine. In this study, we investigated the metabolism of lidocaine to its primary metabolite monoethylglycine xylidide (MEGX), by rat nasal olfactory and respiratory microsomes. The metabolic parameters were compared with metabolism employing rat and human hepatic microsomes. The olfactory and respiratory microsomes both exhibited considerable activity for conversion of lidocaine to MEGX in comparison with the activity in the hepatic tissues. The rat olfactory microsomes had a markedly higher affinity than the rat hepatic or respiratory microsomes. However, the turnover rate was only about one-half that of rat liver. Employing Western immunoblotting we investigated the presence of cytochrome P450s (CYPs) 1A2, 3A2, 2B1 and 2C11 in rat nasal tissues; these isozymes are known to partcipated in the metabolism of lidocaine in rat liver. These isozymes were found to be present in significant amounts in both the nasal olfactory and respiratory tissue; this is the first known report of the presence of CYP2C11 in nasal mucosae. Our studies underscore the importance of CYP-mediated drug metabolism in nasal tissues. The effect of this 'nasal first-pass' should be weighed carefully while considering the fate and the bioavailability of drugs delivered via the intranasal route.
10510769	On-line coupling of automated solid-phase extraction with high-performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection. Quantitation of oxidizable drugs of abuse and their metabolites in plasma and urine.	The concentration effect of automated on-line solid-phase extraction (SPE) in combination with HPLC and very sensitive electrochemical detection was employed for the determination of N-ethyl-4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-amphetamine (HMEA, the main metabolite of the ecstasy analogue MDE), delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and 11-nor-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol-carboxylic acid (THC-COOH) in plasma and urine in comparison to a previously published psilocin assay. For the SPE either CBA (functional group: carboxypropyl)- or CH (functional group: cyclohexyl)-sorbent was used. The following separation was carried out on a reversed-phase column (LiChroCart, Superspher 60 RP select B from Merck). Depending on the hydrodynamic voltammogram of the analyzed substance the oxidation potential varied from 920 mV up to 1.2 V. In spite of using high potentials, precision and accuracy were always within the accepted statistical requirements. The limits of quantitation were between 5 ng/ml (THC, THC-COOH in plasma) and 20 ng/ml (HMEA in plasma). Advantages of on-line SPE in comparison with off-line methods were less manual effort, evidently smaller volumes (< or = 400 microliters) of plasma or urine and almost always higher recovery rates (> 93%). The assays have been successfully proven with real biological samples and found suitable for use in routine analysis.
10511268	Biomarkers of dose and susceptibility in cyclists exposed to monoaromatic hydrocarbons.	A quasi-experimental field study was carried out in 24 volunteers with the aim of: (i) assessing personal exposure to aromatic hydrocarbons polluting urban areas; and (ii) exploring the role of polymorphic enzymes relevant to the biotransformation of benzene in the inter-individual variability of biomarkers. Each subject covered by bicycle: (i) inner city routes with often jammed traffic; and (ii) open rural routes. Time-weighted average airborne concentrations of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX) were determined during 2-h runs. BTEX were determined by solid-phase micro-extraction (SPME) followed by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) in blood and spot urine samples collected just before and immediately after the runs. Urinary t,t-muconic acid was measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-UV. Genotypes of epoxide hydrolase (EH) and glutathione-S-transferase class mu-1 (GSTM1) were also characterised. As compared to pre-run values, benzene and toluene in blood, and toluene and xylenes in urine significantly increased after urban runs. Urinary t,t-muconic acid was significantly higher in post-run samples after both urban (P < 0.001) and rural runs (P < 0.05). Despite a narrow range of exposure levels, a significant relationship was observed between airborne benzene and post-run t,t-muconic acid (r2 = 0.349, P < 0.00). When subgroups were distinguished according to EH and GSTM, subjects bearing both the EH wild type and GSTM 'null' genotype showed significant exposure-related changes in t,t-muconic acid excretion. Even at very low exposure levels, a 2-h bike run in a polluted urban environment may give rise to measurable changes in biomarkers of internal dose of selected aromatic hydrocarbons. Genetically-based metabolic differences may account for part of the inter-individual variability of biomarkers of exposure.
10511279	Determination of S-phenylmercapturic acid in urine as an indicator of exposure to benzene.	S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) was measured in urine from 145 subjects exposed to low benzene concentrations in the air (C(I), benzene). The 8-h, time-weighted exposure intensity of individual workers was monitored by means of charcoal tubes and subsequent gas-chromatographic analysis after desorption with CS2. S-PMA excretion level in urine was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The following linear correlation was found between S-PMA concentrations in urine and benzene concentrations in the breathing zone: log(S-PMA, microg/g creatinine) = 0.712 log (C(I)-benzene, ppm) + 1.644 (n = 145, r = 0.74, P < 0.001). The geometric mean (GSD) of S-PMA concentrations in urine from 45 subjects occupationally not exposed to benzene but smoking more than 20 cigarettes/day was 7.8 microg/g creatinine (2.11), the corresponding value among non-smokers being 1.0 microg/g creatinine (2.18). It is concluded that the urinary level of S-PMA can be regarded as a useful indicator of exposure to benzene.
10517224	Liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric determination of the novel, recently identified thioTEPA metabolite, thioTEPA-mercapturate, in urine.	An assay for the quantitative determination of the mercapturic acid conjugate of N,N',N"-triethylenethiophosphoramide (thioTEPA-mercapturate) in human urine has been developed. ThioTEPA-mercapturate, a recently identified metabolite of the alkylating anticancer agent thioTEPA, was analyzed using LC-MS and with direct sample injection. Sulphadiazine was used as internal standard. Linearity was accomplished in the therapeutic relevant range of 1-25 microg/ml; recovery was 84% and both accuracy and precision were less than 20% for the lower limit of quantification (1.0 microg/ml) and less than 10% for the other concentration levels. The stability of thioTEPA-mercapturate proved to be satisfactory over a period of 2 months, when kept at -80 degrees C. ThioTEPA-mercapturate urine concentrations of two patients treated with thioTEPA are presented demonstrating the applicability of the assay for clinical samples.
10517234	Rapid determination of the anti-cancer drug chlorambucil (Leukeran) and its phenyl acetic acid mustard metabolite in human serum and plasma by automated solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A bioanalytical method for the determination of the anticancer drug chlorambucil (Leukeran) and its phenyl acetic acid mustard metabolite in human serum and plasma is described. Automated solid-phase extraction of the analytes is carried out with C18 sorbent packed in a 96 well format microtitre plate using a robotic sample processor. The extracts are analysed by isocratic reversed-phase liquid chromatography using pneumatically and thermally assisted electrospray ionisation (TurboIonspray) with selected reaction monitoring. The method is specific and sensitive, with a range of 4-800 ng/ml in human serum and plasma for both parent drug and metabolite (sample volume 200 microl). The method is accurate and precise with intra-assay and inter-assay precision (C.V.) of <15% and bias <15% for both analytes. The automated extraction procedure is significantly faster than manual sample pre-treatment methods, a batch of 96 samples is extracted in 50 min allowing for faster sample turnaround. The method has been used to provide pharmacokinetic support to biocomparability studies of Leukeran following single doses of oral tablet formulations.
10517350	Analysis of cyclophosphamide and five metabolites from human plasma using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and gas chromatography-nitrogen-phosphorus detection.	An assay method for the quantification of cyclophosphamide (CY) and five metabolites from human plasma is presented. The procedure is adapted to the chemical properties of the compounds of interest: non-polar compounds are extracted into methylene chloride, concentrated and analyzed by GC-NPD after derivatization, and the remaining aqueous fraction is deproteinated with acetonitrile-methanol prior to separation via reversed-phase HPLC and detection using atmospheric pressure ionization (API)-MS. Standard curves are linear over the required range and reproducible over five months. Plasma concentration-time profiles of CY and metabolites from a patient receiving CY by intravenous infusion (60 mg/kg, once a day for two days) are presented.
10517544	A retrospective study of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in human hair after multiple doses.	The analysis of hair has been proposed as a tool for monitoring drug-treatment compliance. This study was performed to determine if buprenorphine (BPR) and norbuprenorphine (NBPR) could be detected in human hair after controlled administration of drug and to determine if segmental analysis of hair was an accurate record of the dosing history. Subjects with dark hair (six males, six females) received 8 mg sublingual BPR for a maximum of 180 days. Single hair collections were made once after BPR treatment and stored at -20 degrees C until analysis. Hair was aligned scalp-end to tip and then segmented in 3-cm sections. For this study, it was assumed that the mean hair growth rate was 1.0 cm/month. Deuterated internal standard was added to hair segments (2-20 mg of hair) and digested overnight at room temperature with 1 N NaOH. Specimens were extracted with a liquid-liquid procedure and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The limits of quantitation for BPR and NBPR were 3 pg/mg and 5 pg/mg, respectively, for 20 mg of hair. BPR and NBPR concentrations were highest for all subjects in hair segments estimated to correspond to the subject's period of drug treatment. With one exception, NBPR was present in higher concentrations in hair than was the parent compound. BPR concentrations in hair segments ranged from 3.1 pg/mg to 123.8 pg/mg. NBPR concentrations ranged from 4.8 pg/mg to 1517.8 pg/mg. In one subject, BPR and NBPR were not detected in any hair segment. In some subjects, BPR and NBPR were detected in hair segments that did not correspond to the period of drug treatment, suggesting that drug movement may have occurred by diffusion in sweat and other mechanisms. The data from this study also indicate that there is a high degree of intersubject variability in measured concentration of BPR and NBPR in hair segments, even when subjects receive the same dose for an equivalent number of treatment days. Future prospective studies involving controlled drug administration will be necessary to evaluate whether hair can serve as an accurate historical record of variations in the pattern of drug use.
10517562	Urinary excretion profiles of 11-nor-9-carboxy-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol: a delta9-THCCOOH to creatinine ratio study.	Monitoring the major cannabinoid metabolite (delta9-THCCOOH) to creatinine ratio (M/C) has been used to predict new drug use. According to Huestis and Cone, the best accuracy (85.4%) for predicting new marijuana use was a ratio > or = 0.5 from two urine specimens collected at least 24 h apart. Manno et al. recommended an M/C ratio of > or = 1.5. Subjects with a history of chronic marijuana use were screened for cannabinoid use by immunoassay (50-ng/mL cutoff), and presumptive positives were confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for delta9-THCCOOH (15-ng/mL cutoff). Creatinine was analyzed with a cutoff concentration of 25 mg/dL. The study objective was to apply the criteria from both groups of workers to determine if consecutive urine specimens (collected at least 24 h apart) positive for cannabinoids could be used to differentiate new marijuana use from the excretion of residual cannabinoid metabolite (delta9-THCCOOH) in an uncontrolled setting. Serial urine specimens (826) were collected from 26 individuals. Huestis and Cone and Manno et al. ratios indicated new drug use in 83% and 33% of serial urine specimens collected at least 24 h apart, respectively. Clinically, the Huestis and Cone ratio is recommended because of a lower false-negative rate (7.4%) than the Manno et al. false-negative rate (24%). In legal situations, we recommend using the Manno et al. ratio because of its lower false-positive rate (0.1%) as stated by Huestis and Cone.
10529003	MR 20492 and MR 20494: two indolizinone derivatives that strongly inhibit human aromatase.	In this study, we describe the synthesis of a new family of indolizinone derivatives designed to fit an extrahydrophobic pocket within the active site of aromatase and to strongly inhibit human aromatase. This could help improve the specificity of the inhibitors. Equine aromatase, very well characterized biochemically, is used as a comparative model. Indeed, in a previous comparison between both human and equine aromatases, we described the importance of the interaction between the inhibitor and this pocket for the indane derivative MR 20814. MR 20492 and MR 20494 are more potent inhibitors of human aromatase (Ki/Km: 1.0+/-0.3 and 0.5+/-0.3, respectively). The Ki/Km for MR 20494 is slightly higher than that obtained for fadrozole (0.1+/-0.0) and Ki/Km for both indolizinone derivatives are lower than those obtained for 4-hydroxyandrostenedione (1.9+/-0.8) and MR 20814 (8.1+/-.7). These new compounds are not enzyme inactivators. Moreover, as indicated by the higher Ki/Km values obtained with equine enzyme (9.0+/-0.6 and 6.1+/-1.6 for MR 20492 and MR 20494, respectively), both human and equine aromatase active sites appear to be structurally different. Difference absorption spectra study (350-500 nm) revealed that MR20492 and MR20494 were characterized by a combination of type-I and -II spectra with both enzymes. This result could be due to the isomerization of the molecule in polar solvent (Z and E forms). The evaluation of these new molecules, as well as 4-hydroxyandrostenedione and fadrozole, on aromatase activity in transfected 293 cell cultures evidenced a strong inhibition (IC50: 0.20+/-0.03 microM, 0.20+/-0.02 microM and 0.50+/-0.40 microM for MR 20494, fadrozole and 4-OHA, respectively) except for MR 20492 (3.9+/-0.9 microM) and MR 20814 (10.5+/-0.6 microM). These results proved that these molecules formed part of a promising family of potent inhibitors and that they penetrate 293 cells, without evidencing any cytotoxicity in Hela cells with MTT assay. This is thus encouraging for the development of new drugs for the treatment of estrogen-dependent cancers, these molecules also constitute new tools for understanding the aromatase active site.
10552081	The time course of metabolites in human plasma after 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-m-tyrosine administration.	For the investigation of intracerebral dopamine metabolism, 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-m-tyrosine (FmT) has been proposed as an alternative tracer that, unlike 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-dopa, is not subjected to O-methylation. We have studied the time course of FmT and its labelled metabolites in plasma after intravenous injection into humans, employing a method that we have developed and validated to analyze labelled metabolites of FmT in plasma. The study population comprised 38 subjects, 14 of whom were taking an aromatic amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor (carbidopa), and obtained arterialized venous blood samples at various times after an intravenous injection of between 185 and 370 MBq of FmT. The major metabolite of FmT present in plasma was 6-[(18)F]fluoro-3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid. The time course of the fraction of radioactivity in plasma attributable to FmT was fitted well by the decay of two exponential functions. The fast component of the decay accounted for 40%-50% of the radioactivity and had a half-life of about 5 min. The slow component of the decay had a half-life of about 6 h in the subjects not taking carbidopa and 20 h in the patients taking carbidopa. When the total available FmT was calculated for each individual subject and expressed as a proportion of total radioactivity, this quantity did not differ significantly from that determined from the corresponding population mean. There was significantly more (15% on average) FmT available over the course of the 2-h experiment in the group pretreated with carbidopa. Our results demonstrate that the major metabolite in plasma after an intravenous injection of FmT is 6-[(18)F]fluoro-3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid. The clearance of FmT from plasma compares well with the clearance of intravenously administered levodopa. Carbidopa increases significantly the availability of FmT in plasma. These results verify, in a large number of human subjects, earlier analyses of FmT metabolism in other species. We validate a population-derived approach that can adequately describe the time course of FmT in plasma, alleviating the need for metabolite analysis.
10563869	Practical immunochemical method for determination of 3,5, 6-trichloro-2-pyridinol in human urine: applications and considerations for exposure assessment.	An analytical method is described for the quantitative determination of 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (3,5,6-TCP) in human urine. This is the primary analyte found in urine as a result of exposure to chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos-methyl, triclopyr, or 3,5,6-TCP. Conjugates of 3,5,6-TCP are released from urine by acid hydrolysis. The free 3,5,6-TCP is purified using C(18) solid-phase extraction, eluting the analyte with 1-chlorobutane. An aliquot of 1-chlorobutane is placed in a vial containing Trichloropyridinol Sample Diluent and evaporated, leaving the 3,5,6-TCP in the aqueous sample diluent. The samples are assayed using the Trichloropyridinol RaPID Assay immunoassay test kit. Final results are calculated using a standard curve constructed by linear regression after a ln/Logit data transformation is performed of the concentration and the absorbance readings, respectively. The calculated lower limit of quantitation for 3,5,6-TCP in fortified control urine samples is 2. 96 ng/mL (2.96 ppb). Residues of 3,5,6-TCP determined using both immunochemical and gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detection correlate well.
10579472	The roles of cytochrome P450 3A4 and 1A2 in the 3-hydroxylation of quinine in vivo.	To investigate the roles of CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 in the 3-hydroxylation of quinine in vivo. In a randomized, three-way crossover study, nine healthy Swedish volunteers received single oral doses of quinine hydrochloride (500 mg), quinine hydrochloride (500 mg) plus ketoconazole (100 mg twice daily for 3 days), and quinine hydrochloride (500 mg) plus fluvoxamine (25 mg twice daily for 2 days) on three different occasions. Blood and urine samples were collected before quinine intake and up to 96 hours thereafter. Plasma and urine samples were analyzed for both quinine and its main metabolite 3-hydroxyquinine with HPLC methods. Coadministration with ketoconazole (which inhibits CYP3A4) decreased the mean apparent oral clearance of quinine significantly (P < .001) by 31% (from 8.7 to 6.0 L/h), whereas coadministration with fluvoxamine (which inhibits CYP1A2 and to some extent CYP2C19) had no significant effect (P > .05) on the mean apparent oral clearance of quinine. Coadministration with ketoconazole also decreased the mean area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of 3-hydroxyquinine (from 28.4 to 19.7 micromol x h x L(-1); P < .001), whereas coadministration with fluvoxamine increased 3-hydroxyquinine AUC significantly (from 28.4 to 30.2 micromol x h x L(-1); P < .05). Cytochrome P450 3A4 is important for the 3-hydroxylation of quinine in vivo. On the other hand, CYP1A2 had no significant effect on this metabolic pathway.
10594468	A mechanism-based pharmacokinetic-enzyme model for cyclophosphamide autoinduction in breast cancer patients.	This study investigated the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide (CP) and its main metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH-CP) in patients with breast cancer undergoing high dose chemotherapy prior to autologous stem cell transplantation. An enzyme turn-over model was also developed to study the time course of cyclophosphamide induction. Fourteen patients received a combination of CP (6 g m-2 ), thiotepum (500 mg m-2 ) and carboplatin (800 mg m-2 ) as a 96 h infusion. Plasma concentrations of CP and 4-OH-CP were determined with h.p.l.c. and a pharmacokinetic and enzyme turn-over model applied to data using NONMEM. CP plasma concentrations were described by a two-compartment model with a noninducible and an inducible pathway, the latter forming 4-OH-CP. In the final enzyme model, CP affects the amount of enzymes by increasing the enzyme production rate. CP concentrations decreased during the infusion with no subsequent change in 4-OH-CP concentrations. CP inducible and noninducible clearance were estimated to 1.76 l h-1 (90% C.I. 0.92-2.58) and 1.14 l h-1 (0.31-1.85), respectively. The induction resulted in an approximately doubled CP clearance through the inducible pathway at the end of treatment. The model predicted the enzyme turn-over half-life to be 24 h. The presented mechanism-based enzyme induction model where the pharmacokinetics of the inducer and the enzyme pool counterbalance each other successfully described CP autoinduction. It is reasonable to believe that CP affects its own elimination by increasing the enzyme production rate and thereby increasing the amount of enzyme by which CP is eliminated.
10594474	CYP3A4 drug interactions: correlation of 10 in vitro probe substrates.	Many substrates of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 are used for in vitro investigations of drug metabolism and potential drug-drug interactions. The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between 10 commonly used CYP3A4 probes using modifiers with a range of inhibitory potency. The effects of 34 compounds on CYP3A4-mediated metabolism were investigated in a recombinant CYP3A4 expression system. Inhibition of erythromycin, dextromethorphan and diazepam N-demethylation, testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, midazolam 1-hydroxylation, triazolam 4-hydroxylation, nifedipine oxidation, cyclosporin oxidation, terfenadine C-hydroxylation and N-dealkylation and benzyloxyresorufin O-dealkylation was evaluated at the apparent Km or S50 (for substrates showing sigmoidicity) value for each substrate and at an inhibitor concentration of 30 microM. While all CYP3A4 probe substrates demonstrate some degree of similarity, examination of the coefficients of determination, together with difference and cluster analysis highlighted that seven substrates can be categorized into two distinct substrate groups. Erythromycin, cyclosporin and testosterone form the most closely related group and dextromethorphan, diazepam, midazolam and triazolam form a second group. Terfenadine can be equally well placed in either group, while nifedipine shows a distinctly different relationship. Benzyloxyresorufin shows the weakest correlation with all the other CYP3A4 probes. Modifiers that caused negligible inhibition or potent inhibition are generally comparable in all assays, however, the greatest variability is apparent with compounds causing, on average, intermediate inhibition. Modifiers of this type may cause substantial inhibition, no effect or even activation depending on the substrate employed. It is recommended that multiple CYP3A4 probes, representing each substrate group, are used for the in vitro assessment of CYP3A4-mediated drug interactions.
10594487	Effect of diclofenac, disulfiram, itraconazole, grapefruit juice and erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of quinidine.	In vitro studies suggest that the oxidation of quinidine to 3-hydroxyquinidine is a specific marker reaction for CYP3A4 activity. To assess the possible use of this reaction as an in vivo marker of CYP3A4 activity, we studied the involvement of cytochromes CYP2C9, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 in the in vivo oxidative metabolism of quinidine. An open study of 30 healthy young male volunteers was performed. The pharmacokinetics of a 200 mg single oral dose of quinidine was studied before and during daily administration of 100 mg diclofenac, a CYP2C9 substrate (n=6); 200 mg disulfiram, an inhibitor of CYP2E1 (n=6); 100 mg itraconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (n=6); 250 ml single strength grapefruit juice twice daily, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (n=6); 250 mg of erythromycin 4 times daily, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (n=6). Probes of other enzyme activities, caffeine (CYP1A2), sparteine (CYP2D6), mephenytoin (CYP2C19), tolbutamide (CYP2C9) and cortisol (CYP3A4) were also studied. Concomitant administration of diclofenac reduced the partial clearance of quinidine by N-oxidation by 27%, while no effect was found for other pharmacokinetic parameters of quinidine. Concomitant administration of disulfiram did not alter any of the pharmacokinetic parameters of quinidine. Concomitant administration of itraconazole reduced quinidine total clearance, partial clearance by 3-hydroxylation and partial clearance by N-oxidation by 61, 84 and 73%, respectively. The renal clearance was reduced by 60% and the elimination half-life increased by 35%. Concomitant administration of grapefruit juice reduced the total clearance of quinidine and its partial clearance by 3-hydroxylation and N-oxidation by 15, 19 and 27%, respectively. The elimination half-life of quinidine was increased by 19%. The caffeine metabolic index was reduced by 25%. Concomitant administration of erythromycin reduced the total clearance of quinidine and its partial clearance by 3-hydroxylation and N-oxidation by 34, 50 and 33%, respectively. Cmax was increased by 39%. The results confirm an important role for CYP3A4 in the oxidation of quinidine in vivo, and this applies particularly to the formation of 3-hydroxyquinidine. While a minor contribution of CYP2C9 to the N-oxidation of quinidine is possible, a major involvement of the CYP2C9 or CYP2E1 enzymes in the oxidation of quinidine in vivo is unlikely.
10604819	Effect of felbamate on clobazam and its metabolite kinetics in patients with epilepsy.	The authors report preliminary findings on the effect of the new generation antiepileptic drug (AED) felbamate (FBM) on steady state plasma concentrations of clobazam (CLB), a benzodiazepine (frequently used as add-on therapy in patients with refractory epilepsy) and its active metabolite n-desmethyl-clobazam (N-CLB). The authors prospectively collected plasma samples from 66 children and adults with epilepsy receiving chronic CLB therapy. On the basis of concomitant AEDs, patients were divided into three subgroups otherwise comparable for age and weight-adjusted daily dose of CLB: group A (n = 22), receiving CLB monotherapy or CLB plus AEDs without inducing properties of cytochrome P450 (CYP) metabolism, namely valproic acid (VPA) or lamotrigine (LTG); group B (n = 28), receiving CLB plus AED inducer polytherapy (carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin), even associated with VPA (n = 9) or LTG (n = 12); group C (n = 16), receiving CLB plus FBM, associated with AED inducers, VPA or LTG. Level to weight-adjusted dose ratio (L/D) of CLB in groups B and C was twofold lower compared to group A (p < 0.001). L/D of N-CLB was twofold higher in group B and fivefold in group C compared to group A (p < 0.00 1). The metabolite-to-parent drug ratio shifted from a median value of 2.8 in group A to 13 in group B, and up to 29 in patients receiving polytherapy with FBM (p < 0.001). These data confirm previous reports of a significant increase in CLB clearance in patients receiving AED inducers, leading to an accumulation of its main metabolite. They also provide novel evidence of a further marked increase in N-CLB plasma concentrations in patients receiving FBM cotherapy. From a clinical point of view, this finding should be kept in mind in explaining possible toxicity in patients on complex AED polytherapy. Furthermore, knowledge of the in vivo interaction between CLB and FBM could help in identifying the CYP isoforms involved in the metabolism of both CLB and N-CLB.
10608481	Fluvoxamine is a more potent inhibitor of lidocaine metabolism than ketoconazole and erythromycin in vitro.	CYP3A4 is generally believed to be the major CYP enzyme involved in the biotransformation of lidocaine in man; however, recent in vivo studies suggest that this may not be the case. We have examined the effects of the CYP3A4 inhibitors erythromycin and ketoconazole and the CYP1A2 inhibitor fluvoxamine on the N-deethylation, i.e. formation of monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX), and 3-hydroxylation of lidocaine by human liver microsomes. The experiments were carried out at lidocaine concentrations of 5 microM (clinically relevant concentration) and 800 microM. The formation of both MEGX and 3-hydroxylidocaine was best described by a two-enzyme model. At 5 microM of lidocaine, fluvoxamine was a potent inhibitor of the formation of MEGX (IC50 1.2 microM). Ketoconazole and erythromycin also showed an inhibitory effect on MEGX formation, but ketoconazole (IC50 8.5 microM) was a much more potent inhibitor than erythromycin (IC50 200 microM). At 800 microM of lidocaine, fluvoxamine (IC50 20.7 microM) and ketoconazole (IC50 20.4 microM) displayed a modest inhibitory effect on MEGX formation, whereas erythromycin was a weak inhibitor (IC50 >250 microM). The 3-hydroxylation of lidocaine was potently inhibited by fluvoxamine at both lidocaine concentrations (IC50 0.16 microM at 5 microM and 1.8 microM at 800 microM). Erythromycin and ketoconazole showed a clear inhibitory effect on the 3-hydroxylation of lidocaine at 5 microM of lidocaine (IC50 9.9 microM and 13.9 microM, respectively), but did not show a consistent effect at 800 microM of lidocaine (IC50 >250 microM and 75.0 microM, respectively). Although further studies are needed to elucidate the role of distinct CYP enzymes in the biotransformation of lidocaine in humans, the findings of this study suggest that while both CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of lidocaine by human liver microsomes, CYP1A2 is the more important isoform at clinically relevant lidocaine concentrations.
10616189	Metabolism of N-nitrosobenzylmethylamine by human cytochrome P-450 enzymes.	N-Nitrosobenzylmethylamine (NBzMA) is a potent esophageal carcinogen in rodents, and has been found as a dietary contaminant in certain areas of China where esophageal cancer is endemic. To determine which cytochrome P-450 enzymes in humans are primarily responsible for NBzMA metabolism, microsomes from lymphoblastoid cell lines expressing a panel of human cytochrome P-450s (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4) and a panel of 10 different human liver microsomal preparations were examined for their abilities to metabolize [3H]NBzMA. In addition, the ability of human liver microsomes to form various NBzMA metabolites was correlated with the abilities of these preparations to metabolize coumarin, ethoxyresorufin, chlorzoxazone, 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin, S-mephenytoin, and nifedipine. NBzMA metabolites were quantitated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with flow-through radioactivity detection. Major metabolites included benzaldehyde, benzyl alcohol, benzoic acid, and several uncharacterized radioactive peaks. Of the representative P-450 activities, only CYP2E1 and CYP2A6 catalyzed substantial metabolism of NBzMA. Compared to CYP2E1, CYP2A6 metabolized NBzMA more readily. NBzMA acted as a potent inhibitor of coumarin 7-hydroxylation in CYP2A6 microsomes. Human liver microsomes metabolized NBzMA readily. NBzMA metabolite formation was most highly correlated with coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity, a marker of CYP2A6 activity. 8-Methoxypsoralen substantially inhibited NBzMA metabolism in human hepatic microsomes. When the effects of the potent isothiocyanates PEITC and PHITC were analyzed on microsomes from cell lines expressing CYP2E1 and CYP2A6, it was found that PEITC inhibited both enzymes, PHITC was the more effective inhibitor of CYP2E1, and PHITC was an ineffective inhibitor of CYP2A6. Collectively, these data indicate that CYP2A6 and, to a lesser degree, CYP2E1 are important P-450 enzymes in the activation of NBzMA in human systems.
10647495	Clinical pharmacokinetics of the irinotecan metabolite 4-piperidinopiperidine and its possible clinical importance.	To investigate the clinical relevance of 4-piperidinopiperidine (4PP) in the activity of irinotecan (CPT-11), a high-performance liquid chromatography-turboionspray-tandem mass spectrometry assay for plasma 4PP was developed. Plasma samples were prepared for analysis following C18 solid-phase extraction. Chromatography was performed on a Waters Nova-Pak Phenyl column. Selected reaction monitoring with the mass transitions m/z 169.2 --> 84.2 and 139.2 --> 98.1 was used for the detection of 4PP and the internal standard (IS), 1-piperidineproprionitrile, respectively. The assay was linear from 14.8 to 591.0 nM with absolute recoveries of 4PP (59.1 nM) and IS (143.7 nM) of 85.7% (n = 10) and 86.7% (n = 10), respectively. The accuracy and imprecision of the method (total) was > or = 96.8% and < or = 8.5% over the concentration range studied, respectively. 4PP was detectable in plasma following the administration of 125, 350, 500 mg/m2 and 600 mg/m2 CPT-11 to patients, with AUC(4PP) correlated with the dose (r2 = 0.66). Plasma concentrations of 4PP declined slowly with a long terminal half-life (33.4 +/- 17.1 h). Overall, the concentrations of 4PP in plasma were in the sub-micromolar range (< 206.9 nM) and substantially lower than those capable of inducing apoptosis of cancer cells.
10647921	Species comparison of hepatic and pulmonary metabolism of benzene.	Benzene is an occupational hazard and environmental toxicant found in cigarette smoke, gasoline, and the chemical industry. The major health concern associated with benzene exposure is leukemia. Studies using microsomal preparations from human, mouse, rabbit, and rat to determine species differences in the metabolism of benzene to phenol, hydroquinone and catechol, indicate that the rat is most similar, both quantitatively and qualitatively, to the human in pulmonary microsomal metabolism of benzene. With hepatic microsomes, rat is most similar to human in metabolite formation at the two lower concentrations examined (24 and 200 microM), while at the two higher concentrations (700 and 1000 microM) mouse is most similar in phenol formation. In all species, the enzyme system responsible for benzene metabolism approached saturation in hepatic microsomes but not in pulmonary microsomes. In pulmonary microsomes from mouse, rat, and human, phenol appeared to competitively inhibit benzene metabolism resulting in a greater proportion of phenol being converted to hydroquinone when the benzene concentration increased. The opposite effect was seen in hepatic microsomes. These findings support the hypothesis that the lung plays an important role in benzene metabolism, and therefore, toxicity.
10663643	Pharmacokinetics of levamisole in cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil.	To investigate the pharmacokinetics of levamisole and a metabolite, p-hydroxylevamisole in patients with colorectal cancer treated with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Following an intravenous bolus dose of 5-FU, 20 patients with colorectal cancer received oral doses of 50 mg levamisole every 8 h for 3 days. Immediately after the last dose, blood and urine samples were collected over at least an 8-h period. Samples were assayed for levamisole and p-hydroxylevamisole by GC/MS. The levamisole plasma and urine data were subjected to pharmacokinetic analysis using NONMEM software. Substantial interpatient variability was observed in the levamisole plasma concentration-time curves. Patients with cardiovascular or gastrointestinal complications demonstrated altered absorption of levamisole. Pharmacokinetic parameter values for levamisole were similar to those obtained previously in healthy subjects and other cancer patients. There is no evidence that the pharmacokinetics of levamisole are altered by 5-FU administered immediately prior to levamisole administration. The relationship between the substantial intersubject variability in levamisole plasma concentration-time curves and clinical outcome following 5-FU/levamisole adjuvant chemotherapy should be examined.
10676997	Sensitive determination of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its active metabolite SN-38 in human serum using liquid chromatography-electrospray mass spectrometry.	A couple of sensitive and accurate liquid chromatography-electrospray mass spectrometry (LC- S-MS) methods for the determination of the total forms of irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38 in human serum, using the same chromatographic and detection conditions, is presented. Both used camptothecin as internal standard (I.S.). The sample pretreatment for irinotecan involved a simple protein precipitation with acetonitrile, whereas a liquid-liquid extraction was necessary for SN-38. A Symmetry C18, 3.5 microm (150 x 1 mm I.D.) reversed-phase column was used for the chromatographic separation, together with a gradient elution of acetonitrile in 5 mM ammonium formate buffer (pH 3) as mobile phase. After ionisation in the pneumatically-assisted electrospray source and in-source collision induced dissociation, acquisition was performed in the selected ion monitoring mode. Recoveries were 69 and 47% on average, detection limits 2.5 and 0.25 ng/ml and quantitation limits 10 and 0.5 ng/ml for irinotecan and SN-38, respectively. Reproducibility was good and the method was linear from limits of quantitation up to 10,000 ng/ml for irinotecan, and up to 100 ng/ml for SN-38. This sensitive and highly specific method is suitable both for pharmacokinetic studies and routine therapeutic drug monitoring.
10682228	Diurnal motor variations to repeated doses of levodopa in Parkinson's disease.	Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in long-term levodopa therapy often complain of worsening of motor symptoms in the afternoon and evening. The pathophysiology of this phenomenon is not known. We evaluated the motor response to repeated doses of levodopa during a 12-hour period in 52 parkinsonian patients (19 de novo, 20 stable, and 13 wearing-off). On the day of the study, all patients received standard doses of levodopa/carbidopa at 8:00 a.m., 12:00 noon, and 4:00 p.m. Motor measurements such as tapping test, walking time, and tremor score, and blood samples for levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa (3OMD) plasma analysis, were performed hourly. Mean motor scores and pharmacokinetic data, evaluated for a period of 3 hours after each levodopa dose, were compared. In de novo patients, we did not observe diurnal changes in motor score, whereas a progressive daytime worsening was visible in stable and wearing-off patients. No significant difference in levodopa pharmacokinetics after each levodopa dose was observed within each patient group, whereas 3OMD plasma levels significant increased with repeated levodopa administrations. However, no significant correlation between motor scores and 3OMD plasma levels was observed, suggesting that the diminishing motor response to afternoon and evening doses of levodopa in patients in long-term levodopa therapy does not relate to the pharmacokinetics of the drug. It is possible that this phenomenon may be an expression of the occurrence of tolerance to repeated doses of levodopa.
10692561	Role of human liver microsomal CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 in catalyzing N-dechloroethylation of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide.	The anticancer alkylating agents cyclophosphamide (CPA) and ifosfamide (IFA) are prodrugs that undergo extensive P450-catalyzed metabolism to yield both active (4-hydroxylated) and therapeutically inactive but neurotoxic (N-dechloroethylated) metabolites. Whereas the human liver microsomal P450 catalysts of CPA and IFA 4-hydroxylation are well characterized, the P450 enzyme catalysts of the alternative N-dechloroethylation pathway are poorly defined. Analysis of a panel of fifteen human P450 cDNAs in the baculovirus expression system ('Supersomes') demonstrated that CYP3A4 exhibited the highest N-dechloroethylation activity toward both CPA and IFA, whereas CYP2B6 displayed high N-dechloroethylation activity toward IFA, but not CPA. The contributions of each human P450 to overall liver microsomal N-dechloroethylation were calculated using a recently described relative substrate-activity factor method, and were found to be in excellent agreement with the results of inhibition studies using the CYP3A inhibitor troleandomycin and an inhibitory monoclonal antibody to CYP2B6. With CPA as substrate, CYP3A4 was shown to catalyze >/=95% of liver microsomal N-dechloroethylation, whereas with IFA as substrate, CYP3A4 catalyzed an average of approximately 70% of liver microsomal N-dechloroethylation (range = 40-90%), with the balance of this activity catalyzed by CYP2B6 (range = 10-70%, dependent on the CYP2B6 content of the liver). Because CYP2B6 can make a significant contribution to human liver microsomal IFA N-dechloroethylation, but only a minor contribution to IFA 4-hydroxylation, the selective inhibition of hepatic CYP2B6 activity in individuals with a high hepatic CYP2B6 content may provide a useful approach to minimize the formation of therapeutically inactive but toxic N-dechloroethylated IFA metabolites.
10696794	Metabolism and toxicity of trichloroethylene and S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine in freshly isolated human proximal tubular cells.	Trichloroethylene (Tri) caused modest cytotoxicity in freshly isolated human proximal tubular (hPT) cells, as assessed by significant decreases in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity after 1 h of exposure to 500 microM Tri. Oxidative metabolism of Tri by cytochrome P-450 to form chloral hydrate (CH) was only detectable in kidney microsomes from one patient out of four tested and was not detected in hPT cells. In contrast, GSH conjugation of Tri was detected in cells from every patient tested. The kinetics of Tri metabolism to its GSH conjugate S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)glutathione (DCVG) followed biphasic kinetics, with apparent Km and Vmax values of 0.51 and 24.9 mM and 0.10 and 1.0 nmol/min per mg protein, respectively. S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), the cysteine conjugate metabolite of Tri that is considered the penultimate nephrotoxic species, caused both time- and concentration-dependent increases in LDH release in freshly isolated hPT cells. Preincubation of hPT cells with 0.1 mM aminooxyacetic acid did not protect hPT cells from DCVC-induced cellular injury, suggesting that another enzyme besides the cysteine conjugate beta-lyase may be important in DCVC bioactivation. This study is the first to measure the cytotoxicity and metabolism of Tri and DCVC in freshly isolated cells from the human kidney. These data indicate that the pathway involved in the cytotoxicity and metabolism of Tri in hPT cells is the GSH conjugation pathway and that the cytochrome P-450-dependent pathway has little direct role in renal Tri metabolism in humans.
10702251	4-hydroxyretinoic acid, a novel substrate for human liver microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase(s) and recombinant UGT2B7.	It is suggested that formation of more polar metabolites of all-trans-retinoic acid (atRA) via oxidative pathways limits its biological activity. In this report, we investigated the biotransformation of oxidized products of atRA via glucuronidation. For this purpose, we synthesized 4-hydroxy-RA (4-OH-RA) in radioactive and nonradioactive form, 4-hydroxy-retinyl acetate (4-OH-RAc), and 5,6-epoxy-RA, all of which are major products of atRA oxidation. Glucuronidation of these retinoids by human liver microsomes and human recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) was characterized and compared with the glucuronidation of atRA. The human liver microsomes glucuronidated 4-OH-RA and 4-OH-RAc with 6- and 3-fold higher activity than atRA, respectively. Analysis of the glucuronidation products showed that the hydroxyl-linked glucuronides of 4-OH-RA and 4-OH-RAc were the major products, as opposed to the formation of the carboxyl-linked glucuronide with atRA, 4-oxo-RA, and 5,6-epoxy-RA. We have also determined that human recombinant UGT2B7 can glucuronidate atRA, 4-OH-RA, and 4-OH-RAc with activities similar to those found in human liver microsomes. We therefore postulate that this human isoenzyme, which is expressed in human liver, kidney, and intestine, plays a key role in the biological fate of atRA. We also propose that atRA induces its own oxidative metabolism via a cytochrome P450 (CYP26) and is further biotransformed into glucuronides via UGT-mediated pathways.
10706426	Metabolites of orally administered Perilla frutescens extract in rats and humans.	As a part of our search for bioactive substances from the leaves of Perilla frutescens BRITTON var. acuta KUDO (Perillae Herba, Labiatae), the aqueous extract was orally administered to rats and humans, and metabolites in the urine, plasma, and/or bile were analyzed by a high-performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) equipped with a photodiode array detector. When the extract was administered to rats, 10 metabolites, trans-caffeic acid-4-O-sulfate (1), trans-p-coumaric acid-4-O-sulfate (2), trans-ferulic acid-4-O-sulfate (3), trans-m-coumaric acid-3-O-sulfate (4), trans-caffeic acid (5), m-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (6), trans-p-coumaric acid (7), trans-m-coumaric acid (8), luteolin (9), and apigenin (10) were detected in the urine, whereas four metabolites, scutellarein-6, 7-di-O-beta-glucuronide (11), apigenin-4'-O-sulfate-7-O-beta-glucuronide (12), apigenin-7-O-beta-glucuronide (13), and diosmetin-7-O-beta-glucuronide (14) were found in the bile. Compounds 1-8 and 11-14 were also found in the plasma. When the extract was given to humans, however, two metabolites, 1-O-(2,4,5-trimethoxycinnamoyl)-beta-glucuronic acid (15) and apigenin-4'-O-beta-glucuronide (16), were found in the urine and plasma. Thus, a species difference in the metabolism of the extract constituents was observed between rats and humans. Structures 1-16 were identified based on their chemical and spectral data.
10718645	Determination of estramustine phosphate and its metabolites estromustine, estramustine, estrone and estradiol in human plasma by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection and gas chromatography with nitrogen-phosphorus and mass spectrometric detection.	Bioanalytical methods for the determination of estramustine phosphate by liquid chromatography and its four main metabolites estromustine, estramustine, estrone and estradiol by gas chromatography are described. For the estramustine phosphate assay the plasma was purified by protein precipitation followed by a C18 solid-phase extraction. For the metabolite assay the plasma samples were purified by a C18 solid-phase and liquid-liquid extraction procedure and derivatised by silanization. Thereafter, estramustine and estromustine were quantified by gas chromatography with nitrogen-phosphorus detection and estradiol and estrone were quantified by gas chromatography with selected ion monitoring. The methods were validated with respect to linearity, selectivity, precision, accuracy, limit of quantitation, limit of detection, recovery and stability. The limit of quantitation was 2.3 micromol/l for estramustine phosphate, 30 nmol/l for estromustine and estramustine, 12 nmol/l for estrone and 8 nmol/l for estradiol. The results showed good precision and accuracy for estramustine phosphate and the four metabolites. The intermediate precision was 6.2-13.5% (C.V.) and the accuracy was 91.8-103.9%.
10718660	Simultaneous stereoselective high-performance liquid chromatographic determination of 10-hydroxycarbazepine and its metabolite carbamazepine-10,11-trans-dihydrodiol in human urine.	An enantioselective HPLC method for the simultaneous determination of the concentration of the enantiomers of the oxcarbazepine metabolites 10-hydroxycarbazepine (MHD) and carbamazepine-10,11-trans-dihydrodiol (DHD) in human urine is described. The method is based on extraction with tert.-butylmethyl ether-dichloromethane (2:1, v/v) under alkaline conditions, separation and evaporation of the organic phase and dissolution of the residue in the mobile phase. Enantiomers are resolved on a Diacel Chiralcel OD column (250 mm x 4.6 mm I.D.) under isocratic conditions using as mobile phase n-hexane-ethanol-2-propanol (18:2:1, v/v/v) with addition of glacial acetic acid (0.1%). The enantiomers are detected by UV at 215 nm. The method allows reliable determination of the MHD and DHD enantiomers in human urine with limits of quantification of 0.2 mg/l and 0.4 mg/l, respectively.
10741474	Biological monitoring of standardized exposure to ethylbenzene: evaluation of a biological tolerance (BAT) value.	The results of standardized 8 h lasting exposures of n = 18 volunteers to ethylbenzene (EthBz) at levels of 25 and 100% of the maximum allowable concentrations at the workplace (MAK) value of 100 ppm as well as the results of field studies are considered to evaluate a biological tolerance (BAT) value for EthBz. On the basis of the relationship between the external and internal exposure a BAT value of 1.5 mg/l has been set for the EthBz concentration in blood as the most sensitive and specific parameter of exposure to this aromatic hydrocarbon. The interpretation of EthBz blood values has to take into account the short half-life of t1/2 = 0.5 +/- 0.08 h in the first hour after the end of exposure in which this aromatic hydrocarbon is eliminated from the blood. The additional determination of the EthBz metabolites mandelic acid (MA) and phenylglyoxylic acid (PGA), respectively, excreted in post shift urine as well as in urine samples at the beginning of the next shift shows good correlations with the external exposure. The biological half-life of MA was calculated to t1/2 = 5.3 +/- 1.1 h. Because the time of sampling can vary the relationship between the levels of MA to PGA the total concentration of the excreted metabolites depends less on this influence and is therefore better suited for monitoring exposed persons. On the basis of the standardized experiments a BAT value has been proposed of 2 g MA plus PGA corrected per gram creatinine. Both BAT values are adjusted to data which result from earlier standardized exposures during 30 min to EthBz under physical activity of 50 watt on a bicycle ergometer.
10752640	Sulphonation of N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene by human dehydroepiandrosterone sulphotransferase.	1. The aim was to determine which human recombinant sulphotransferase (ST) isoform(s) were responsible for the sulphonation and, thus, potential further bioactivation of the classical hepatic procarcinogen N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (N-OH-2AAF). 2. N-OH-2AAF was incubated together with the cosubstrate 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulphate (PAPS) and either human liver cytosol or recombinant P-form phenolsulphotransferase (P-PST), M-form PST, dehydroepiandrosterone-ST (DHEA-ST) or oestrogen ST (EST). Formation of 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphate (PAP) from PAPS, measured by HPLC, was used as the assay for determination of sulphoconjugation rates. 3. The liver cytosol produced a 100% increase in PAP formation in the presence of 200 microM N-OH-2AAF as compared with baseline levels (p < 0.01), corresponding to a rate of 19 pmol/min/mg protein. Recombinant P-PST, however, was without effect. This is in contrast to previous suggestions using crude enzyme preparations. Like P-PST, recombinant M-PST and EST did not sulphonate N-OH-2AAF. On the other hand, recombinant DHEA-ST produced a 161% increase in PAP formation in the presence of 200 microM N-OH-2AAF as compared with baseline values (p < 0.001). 4. Kinetic studies of N-OH-2AAF sulphonation by DHEA-ST and human liver cytosol gave similar apparent Kms. Interestingly, the Vmax for N-OH-2AAF sulphonation by DHEA-ST was very similar to that of DHEA, the natural substrate for DHEA-ST. 5. This is the first paper to demonstrate the involvement of the human DHEA-ST in the sulphonation of an N-hydroxylated aromatic amide carcinogen.
10755376	Gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric procedures for determination of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity and for detection of unstable catecholic metabolites in human and rat liver preparations after COMT catalyzed in statu nascendi derivatization using S-adenosylmethionine.	A procedure is presented for determination of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in liver cytosolic preparations using 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine as substrate and by quantifying the product 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethylamine (3-MHP). For quantification of 3-MHP in liver cytosolic preparations a gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric procedure after liquid-liquid extraction and acetylation was established and validated. The intra- and inter-day accuracy and precision were better than 15% and 20%, respectively. Extraction efficiency and selectivity were also sufficient. For in statu nascendi derivatization of unstable catecholic metabolites in liver microsome preparations, cytosolic preparations with COMT activities of at least 1 nmol product/min/mg protein were used after addition of S-adenosylmethionine. Such catecholic metabolites, which are claimed to be responsible for toxic effects in vivo, e.g., neurotoxicity or carcinogenesis, must not be overlooked in in vitro metabolism studies. Using this trick, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was suitable for the determination of catecholic metabolites in human and rat liver preparations after the same sample preparation as for 3-MHP quantification. The applicability was exemplified for the antidepressant paroxetine.
10759686	Relative contribution of cytochromes P-450 and flavin-containing monoxygenases to the metabolism of albendazole by human liver microsomes.	Albendazole (ABZ; methyl 5-propylthio-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl carbamate) is a broad spectrum anthelmintic whose activity resides both in the parent compound and its sulphoxide metabolite (ABS). There are numerous reports of ABZ metabolism in animals but relatively few in humans. We have investigated the sulphoxidation of ABZ in human liver microsomes and recombinant systems. The specific enzymes involved in the sulphoxidation of ABZ were determined by a combination of approaches; inhibition with an antiserum directed against cytochrome P450 reductase, the effect of selective chemical inhibitors on ABZ sulphoxidation in human liver microsomes, the capability of expressed CYP and FMO to mediate the formation of ABS, regression analysis of the rate of metabolism of ABZ to ABS in human liver microsomes against selective P450 substrates and regression analysis of the rate of ABS sulphoxidation against CYP expression measured by Western blotting. Comparison of Vmax values obtained following heat inactivation (3min at 45 degrees C) of flavin monoxygenases (FMO), chemical inhibition of FMO with methimazole and addition of an antiserum directed against cytochrome P450 reductase indicate that FMO and CYP contribute approximately 30% and 70%, respectively, to ABS production in vitro. Comparison of CLint values suggests CYP is a major contributor in vivo. A significant reduction in ABZ sulphoxidation (n = 3) was seen with ketoconazole (CYP3 A4; 32-37%), ritonavir (CYP3 A4: 34-42%), methimazole (FMO: 28-49%) and thioacetamide (FMO; 32-35%). Additive inhibition with ketoconazole and methimazole was 69 +/- 8% (n = 3). ABS production in heat - treated microsomes (3 min at 45 degrees C) correlated significantly with testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (CYP3A4; P < 0.05) and band intensities on Western blots probed with an antibody selective for 3A4 (P < 0.05). Recombinant human CYP3 A4, CYP1A2 and FMO3 produced ABS in greater quantities than control microsomes, with those expressing CYP3A4 producing threefold more ABS than those expressing CYP1A2. Kinetic studies showed the Km values obtained with both CYP3A4 and FMO3 were similar. We conclude that the production of ABS in human liver is mediated via both FMO and CYP, principally CYP3A4, with the CYP component being the major contributor.
10760502	In vitro glucuronidation of kaempferol and quercetin by human UGT-1A9 microsomes.	Flavonoids are important polyphenolic substances with widespread occurrence in plants and therefore in the human diet. Although considerable work has been done on the pharmacology of flavonoids, the understanding of their metabolism is still incomplete. In this work, the in vitro glucuronidation of the common dietary flavonoids quercetin and kaempferol by human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase microsomes (UGT-1A9) was investigated using HPLC and LC-MS. The two flavonoids were extensively metabolised by this enzyme with four monoglucuronides of quercetin and two of kaempferol being detected after incubation. The presence of a quercetin monoglucuronide in the urine of a volunteer after consumption of Ginkgo biloba tablets was demonstrated.
10761165	Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of an oral once-a-day osmotic controlled-release OROS (methylphenidate HCl) formulation.	Methylphenidate is used for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). OROS (methylphenidate HCl) is an osmotic controlled-release delivery system designed for once-daily oral dosing. The pharmacokinetics of OROS (methylphenidate HCl) 18 mg qd, sustained-release (SR) methylphenidate 20 mg qd, and the immediate-release (IR) formulation given as three 5 mg doses every 4 hours (tid) were compared in adults. In addition, the single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of the OROS formulation were studied. Following OROS (methylphenidate HCl), there was a gradual increase in the mean methylphenidate plasma concentrations with peak concentrations noted at 6 to 8 hours. With the SR formulation, peak plasma concentrations were noted at approximately 4 hours. Following the IR regimen, methylphenidate plasma concentrations fluctuated in tandem with oral dosing; peak concentrations were noted at 6.5 hours. The terminal half-life of methylphenidate was similar for the three formulations. The dose-normalized methylphenidate Cmax for OROS (methylphenidate HCl) was significantly lower than for IR and SR methylphenidate. The bioavailability of methylphenidate and PPA from OROS (methylphenidate HCl) relative to the IR and SR formulations was complete. Mean methylphenidate AUC and terminal half-life were similar after single (32.9 ng.h/mL and 3.9 hours) and multiple doses (35.2 ng.h/mL and 3.9 hours) of OROS (methylphenidate HCl).
10770451	Steady-state plasma levels of nortriptyline and its hydroxylated metabolites in Japanese patients: impact of CYP2D6 genotype on the hydroxylation of nortriptyline.	The authors investigated the impact of the CYP2D6 genotype on steady-state concentrations of nortriptyline (NT) and its metabolites, trans-10-hydroxynortriptyline (EHNT) and cis-10-hydroxynortriptyline in a Japanese population of psychiatric patients. Forty-one patients (20 men and 21 women) were orally administered nortriptyline hydrochloride. The allele frequencies of the CYP2D6*5 and CYP2D6*10 were 4.9% and 34.1%, respectively. Significant differences in NT concentrations corrected for dose and weight were observed between the subjects with no mutated alleles and those with one mutated allele (mean +/- SD for no mutated alleles vs. one mutated allele: 70.3 +/- 25.4 vs. 98.4 +/- 36.6 ng/mL x mg(-1) x kg(-1); t = 2.54, dcf = 33, p < 0.05) and between the subjects with no mutated alleles and two mutated alleles (no mutated alleles vs. two mutated alleles: 70.3 +/- 25.4 vs. 147 +/- 31.1 ng/mL x mg(-1) x kg(-1); t = 5.87, df = 19, p < 0.0001). Also, a significant difference in the NT/EHNT ratio, which is representative of the hydroxylation ratio of NT, was observed between the subjects with no mutated alleles and those with two mutated alleles (no mutated alleles vs. two mutated alleles: 0.82 +/- 0.30 vs. 2.71 +/- 0.84; t = 7.86, df = 19, p < 0.0001). Multiple regression analysis showed that the number of mutated alleles of CYP2D6, which was the only significant factor, accounted for 41% and 48% of the variability in log(NT corrected for dose and weight) and log(NT/EHNT), respectively.
10770456	Pharmacologic profile of perphenazine's metabolites.	The authors have previously reported that in elderly patients treated with low doses of perphenazine, few extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) developed in those who were not poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. The authors hypothesized that this atypical side effect profile is due to perphenazine's principal metabolite, n-dealkylperphenazine (DAPZ), which is usually present in vivo at concentrations 1.5 to 2 times that of the parent drug. Perphenazine, DAPZ, and 7-hydroxyperphenazine affinities were examined in vitro by competition-binding analysis to isolated human receptors expressed in transfected cell lines. Perphenazine and metabolite effects were examined in vivo in 54 older patients who were treated with perphenazine, at a target dose of 0.1 mg/kg, for 10 to 17 days. Drug concentrations were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. In in vitro binding studies, DAPZ demonstrated a higher affinity for serotonin-2A receptors than for dopamine-2 receptors to an extent comparable to that of some atypical neuroleptic agents. In contrast, perphenazine and 7-hydroxyperphenazine demonstrated a higher affinity for dopamine-2 receptors than for serotonin-2A receptors. The mean +/- SD concentrations in the 54 subjects were the following: perphenazine, 1.5 +/- 1.4 ng/mL; DAPZ, 2.0 +/-1.6 ng/mL; and 7-hydroxyperphenazine, 0.8 +/- 1.9 ng/mL. The mean +/- SD quotient for the DAPZ/perphenazine concentration was 1.7 +/- 1.1 and for the 7-hydroxyperphenazine/perphenazine was 0.54 +/-1.6. EPS onset was not correlated with the perphenazine concentration, the metabolite concentrations, the DAPZ/perphenazine quotient, or the 7-hydroxyperphenazine/perphenazine quotient. Despite a moderately atypical receptor-binding profile, DAPZ does not seem to moderate perphenazine effects in vivo in older patients. This outcome likely reflects the low potency of DAPZ for dopamine-2 and serotonin-2A receptors relative to the potency of perphenazine for these receptors. Further exploration of atypical properties of DAPZ should include de novo administration of this metabolite in animal models.
10774535	Sensitive and selective determination of tetracaine and its metabolite in human samples by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A sensitive and reliable method was developed for the determination of tetracaine and its metabolite, p-butylaminobenzoic acid, in human samples. Tetracaine and the metabolite, effectively extracted using a liquid-liquid extraction procedure from 0.5 g of sample, were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Tetracaine was analyzed without derivatization, and the metabolite was analyzed after tert-butylolimethylsilyl derivatization. Dibucaine and p-dimethylaminobenzoic acid were used as internal standards for tetracaine and the metabolite, respectively. The calibration curve for each compound was linear in the concentration range from 10 to 1,000 ng/0.5 g, and the lower limits of detection were 10 ng/g for tetracaine and 0.6 ng/g for the metabolite in whole blood and tissues. The accuracy and precision of the method were evaluated in whole blood and brain at the concentrations of 50 ng/0.5 g and 500 ng/0.5 g for tetracaine and 10 ng/0.5 g and 100 ng/0.5 g for the metabolite. The coefficients of variation ranged from 0.8 to 3.0% for tetracaine and 2.4 to 9.8% for the metabolite. We used this method to determine tetracaine and its metabolite in human whole blood and tissues of an autopsied patient who died during spinal anesthesia induced by tetracaine.
10774632	Simultaneous plasma level analysis of clomipramine, N-desmethylclomipramine, and fluvoxamine by reversed-phase liquid chromatography.	A simple reversed-phase liquid chromatographic method enabling the simultaneous analysis in plasma of the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine, its demethylated metabolite, and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine, was developed. The drugs and dibenzepine, the internal standard, were extracted from 1 mL plasma through an automated solid-phase procedure, eluted in a total chromatographic time of approximately 14 min and detected by means of an ultraviolet spectrophotometer preset at 254 nm. An assay sensitivity of 10 microg/L was observed for all analytes. Recoveries for these drugs and their metabolites ranged between 65% and 98% and their coefficient of variation (within-day and day-to-day) between 1.9% and 2.9%. In spiked plasma, within-day and day-to-day imprecision data were less than 5%. The simultaneous determination of clomipramine, N-desmethylclomipramine, and fluvoxamine with adequate sensitivity and accuracy may be useful for the monitoring of drug treatment in depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder, where combinations of such drugs are employed.
10778932	Studies on the metabolism and toxicological detection of the amphetamine-like anorectic fenproporex in human urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and fluorescence polarization immunoassay.	Studies on the metabolism and the toxicological analysis of fenproporex (R,S-3-[(1-phenyl-2-propyl)-amino]-propionitrile, FP) using GC-MS and fluorescence polarization immunoassay are described. The metabolites were identified in urine samples of volunteers by GC-MS after cleavage of conjugates, extraction and acetylation. Besides unchanged FP, fourteen metabolites, including amphetamine, could be identified. Two partially overlapping metabolic pathways could be postulated: ring degradation by one- and two-fold aromatic hydroxylation followed by methylation and side chain degradation by N-dealkylation to amphetamine (AM). A minor pathway leads via beta-hydroxylation of AM to norephedrine. For GC-MS detection, the systematic toxicological analysis procedure including acid hydrolysis, extraction at pH 8-9 and acetylation was suitable (detection limits 50 ng/ml for FP and 100 ng/ml for AM). Excretion studies showed, that only AM but neither FP nor its specific metabolites were detectable 30-60 h after ingestion of 20 mg of FP. Therefore, misinterpretation can occur. The Abbott TDx FPIA amphetamine/methamphetamine II gave positive results up to 58 h. All the positive immunoassay results could be confirmed by the described GC-MS procedure.
10798213	Interindividual variation in metabolism of soy isoflavones and lignans: influence of habitual diet on equol production by the gut microflora.	The soy isoflavones, daidzein and genistein, and the lignans, matairesinol and secoisolariciresinol, are phytoestrogens metabolized extensively by the intestinal microflora. Considerable important evidence is already available that shows extensive interindividual variation in isoflavone metabolism, and we have investigated the extent of this variation in a crossover study of a soy-containing food low or high in isoflavones (each treatment period lasted for 17 days, and the 2 treatment periods were separated by a 25-day washout period) in 24 healthy subjects [19 women and 5 men, mean age 30 yr, range 19-40, mean body mass index 22.5 +/- 3.5 (SD) kg/m2]. There was a 16-fold variation in total isoflavonoid excretion in urine after the high-isoflavone treatment period. The variation in urinary equol excretion was greatest (664-fold), and subjects fell into two groups: poor equol excretors and good equol excretors (36%). A significant negative correlation was found between the proportion of energy from fat in the habitual diet and urinary equol excretion (r = -0.55; p = 0.012). Good equol excretors consumed less fat as percentage of energy than poor excretors (26 +/- 2.3% compared with 35 +/- 1.6%, p < 0.01) and more carbohydrate as percentage of energy than poor excretors (55 +/- 2.9% compared with 47 +/- 1.7%, p < 0.05). Interindividual variation in the urinary excretion of O-desmethyl-angolensin (O-DMA) was also apparent (76-fold after the high-isoflavone treatment period), but there was no relationship between equol excretion and O-DMA excretion. Enterolactone was the major lignan metabolite in urine and plasma but showed less interindividual variation than equol and O-DMA. It is suggested that the dietary fat intake decreases the capacity of gut microbial flora to synthesize equol.
10799653	Identification of the human cytochromes P450 involved in the oxidative metabolism of "Ecstasy"-related designer drugs.	The human cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes catalyzing the oxidative metabolism of the widely abused amphetamine derivatives MDMA (N-methyl-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, "Ecstasy"), MDE (N-ethyl-3, 4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, "Eve"), and MDA (3, 4-methylenedioxyamphetamine) were identified. Using a simplified non-extractive reversed-phase HPLC assay with fluorescence detection, biphasic Michaelis-Menten kinetics were obtained for formation of all three dihydroxyamphetamines in liver microsomes from a CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer subject. In contrast, no low K(m) component was detectable in microsomes from a poor metabolizer subject. Additional specific probes for CYP2D6 further confirmed this isozyme as the exclusive low K(m) component for demethylenation. P450-selective inhibitors applied to CYP2D6-inhibited microsomes and activity measurements in a series of recombinant P450s suggested CYP1A2 as the major high K(m) component with contributions by CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. Moreover, the relative CYP1A2 content of a panel of 12 human livers was weakly but significantly correlated to the high K(m) demethylenase activity (Spearman rank correlation coefficient [r(s)] = 0.58; P < 0.05). Microsomal maximal velocities for N-dealkylation were at least 7-fold lower than for demethylenation and were characterized by apparently monophasic kinetics. The most important isozyme for this reaction appeared to be CYP2B6, the microsomal content of which was found to be strongly correlated to N-deethylation of MDE (r(s) = 0.90; P < 0.001). We conclude that, in addition to CP2D6 as the sole high-affinity demethylenase, several other P450 isozymes have the capacity to contribute to microsomal oxidative metabolism of methylenedioxyamphetamines. This may be of particular importance in individuals genetically lacking functional CYP2D6.
10800057	The effect of busulphan on the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and its 4-hydroxy metabolite: time interval influence on therapeutic efficacy and therapy-related toxicity.	Busulphan and cyclophosphamide (Bu/CP) are widely used in preparative regimens for bone marrow transplantation. Many studies have shown a wide variation in busulphan pharmacokinetics. Moreover, higher rates of liver toxicity were reported in Bu/CP protocols than in a total body irradiation (TBI)-containing regimen. In the present paper we investigated the effect of the time interval between the last dose of busulphan and the first dose of cyclophosphamide on the pharmacokinetics of CP and its cytotoxic metabolite 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-OHCP). Thirty-six patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation (BMT) were included in the study. We also investigated the occurrence of veno-occlusive disease, mucositis and graft-versus-host disease. Ten patients conditioned with CP followed by TBI served as a control group (TBI). Twenty-six patients were conditioned with Bu/CP. The patients received Bu (1 mg/kg x 4 for 4 days), followed by CP (60 mg/kg for 2 days) administered as a 1-h infusion. Patients received their CP therapy either 7-15 h (group A, n = 12) or 24-50 h (group B, n = 14) after the last dose of Bu. None of the patients were given phenytoin or any other drug known to enhance CP metabolism. The administration of CP less than 24 h after the last dose of Bu resulted in: (1) a significantly (P = 0.003) lower clearance for cyclophosphamide was observed in group A (0.036 l/h/kg) compared to 0.055 and 0.055 l/h/kg, in the B and TBI groups, respectively; (2) significantly (P = 0.002) longer elimination half-life in group A (10.93 h) than in groups B and TBI (6.87 and 7.52 h, respectively); (3) significantly (P < 0.001) lower exposure to the cytotoxic metabolite (4-OHCP), expressed as the ratio AUC4-OHCP/AUCCP, in group A (0.0053) than that obtained in group B (0.013) and group TBI (0.012); (4) the patients in group A had a significantly (P < 0.05) higher incidence of VOD (seven of 12) than the other groups, B and TBI (2/14 and 1/10, respectively); and (5) mucositis was significantly higher in group A patients (8/12), being seen in only one patient in group B and none in the TBI group. The present study has shown that the interval between busulphan and cyclophosphamide administration can negatively affect the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and its cytotoxic metabolite. We conclude that the timing of CP administration must be considered in order to improve drug efficacy and reduce conditioning-related toxicity.
10805064	Human halothane metabolism, lipid peroxidation, and cytochromes P(450)2A6 and P(450)3A4.	Halothane undergoes both oxidative and reductive metabolism by cytochrome P450 (CYP), respectively causing rare immune-mediated hepatic necrosis and common, mild subclinical hepatic toxicity. Halothane also causes lipid peroxidation in rodents in vitro and in vivo, but in vivo effects in humans are unknown. In vitro investigations have identified a role for human CYPs 2E1 and 2A6 in oxidation and CYPs 2A6 and 3A4 in reduction. The mechanism-based CYP2E1 inhibitor disulfiram diminished human halothane oxidation in vivo. This investigation tested the hypotheses that halothane causes lipid peroxidation in humans in vivo, and that CYP2A6 or CYP3A4 inhibition can diminish halothane metabolism. Patients (n = 9 each group) received single doses of the mechanism-based inhibitors troleandomycin (CYP3A4), methoxsalen (CYP2A6) or nothing (controls) before a standard halothane anaesthetic. Reductive halothane metabolites chlorotrifluoroethane and chlorodifluoroethylene in exhaled breath, fluoride in urine, and oxidative metabolites trifluoroacetic acid and bromide in urine were measured for 48 h postoperatively. Lipid peroxidation was assessed by plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations. The halothane dose was similar in all groups. Methoxsalen decreased 0- to 8-h trifluoroacetic acid (23 +/- 20 micromol vs 116 +/- 78 micromol) and bromide (17 +/- 11 micromol vs 53 +/- 49 micromol) excretion (P < 0.05), but not thereafter. Plasma F2-isoprostanes in controls were increased from 8.5 +/- 4.5 pg/ml to 12.5 +/- 5.0 pg/ml postoperatively (P < 0.05). Neither methoxsalen nor troleandomycin diminished reductive halothane metabolite or F2-isoprostane concentrations. These results provide the first evidence for halothane-dependent lipid peroxidation in humans. Methoxsalen effects on halothane oxidation confirm in vitro results and suggest limited CYP2A6 participation in vivo. CYP2A6-mediated, like CYP2E1-mediated human halothane oxidation, can be inhibited in vivo by mechanism-based CYP inhibitors. In contrast, clinical halothane reduction and lipid peroxidation were not amenable to suppression by CYP inhibitors.
10821401	Simple and rapid determination of irinotecan and its metabolite SN-38 in plasma by high-performance liquid-chromatography: application to clinical pharmacokinetic studies.	Irinotecan (CPT-11) is an anticancer agent widely employed in the treatment of colorectal carcinoma. A simple, rapid and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the simultaneous determination of CPT-11 and its metabolite SN-38 in plasma, and their preliminary clinical pharmacokinetics are described. Both deproteinisation of plasma specimens (100 microl) and addition of the internal standard, camptothecin (CPT), are achieved by incorporating to samples 100 microl of a solution of CPT (1 microg/ml) in acetonitrile-1 mM orthophosphoric acid (90:10); 200 microl of this acidified acetonitrile solution, drug-free, is also added to accomplish complete deproteinisation: this procedure reduces sample preparation time to a minimum. After deproteinisation, samples are treated with potassium dihydrogenphosphate (0.1 M) and injected into a Nucleosil C18 (5 microm, 250 x 4.0 mm) column. Mobile phase consists of potassium dihydrogenphosphate (0.1 M)-acetonitrile (67:33), at a flow-rate of 1 ml/min. CPT-11, SN-38 and CPT are detected by fluorescence with excitation wavelength set at 228 nm and emission wavelengths of CPT-11, SN-38 and CPT fixed, respectively, at 450, 543 and 433 nm. The limits of quantitation for CPT-11 and SN-38 are 1.0 and 0.5 ng/ml, respectively. This method shows good precision: the within day relative standard deviation (RSD) for CPT-11 (1-10000 ng/ml) is 5.17% (range 2.15-8.27%) and for SN-38 (0.5-400 ng/ml) is 4.33% (1.32-7.78%); the between-day RSDs for CPT-11 and SN-38, in the previously described ranges, are 6.82% (5.03-10.8%) and 4.94% (2.09-9.30%), respectively. Using this assay, plasma pharmacokinetics of CPT-11, SN-38 and its glucuronidated form, SN-38G, have been determined in one patient receiving 200 mg/m2 of CPT-11 as a 90 min intravenous infusion. The peak plasma concentration of CPT-11 at the end of the infusion is 3800 ng/ml. Plasma decay is biphasic with a terminal half-life of 11.6 h. The volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) is 203 l/m2, and the total body clearance (Cl) is 14.8 l/h x m2. The maximum concentrations of SN-38 and SN-38G reach 28.9 and 151 ng/ml, respectively.
10831022	Single-dose pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate in CYP2D6 extensive and poor metabolizers.	Six adults phenotyped as either extensive (N = 4) or poor (N = 2) metabolizers for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 were given a 10-mg oral dose of methylphenidate (MPH) on two separate occasions with and without quinidine, a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor. Quinidine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of either MPH or ritalinic acid, its major metabolite, in either group of CYP2D6 metabolizers. These data suggest a lack of involvement of CYP2D6 in the metabolism of MPH. Drugs that are inhibitors of CYP2D6 when taken concurrently with MPH should not affect its plasma concentration.
10839494	Metabolism of styrene by human liver and lung.	In mice, styrene is pneumotoxic, and there is some evidence of tumorigenicity. This toxicity is thought to be related to its bioactivation to styrene oxide in lung. To determine if human tissues have this capacity, the metabolism of styrene to styrene oxide was measured in human liver and lung microsomal preparations. Hepatic microsomes metabolized styrene to styrene oxide, but lung microsomes had essentially no activity. However, microsomes from both tissues metabolized benzene to phenol. The data suggest that human lung has low styrene metabolizing activity and may be much less of a target organ than in mouse.
10866914	Low-flow desflurane and sevoflurane anesthesia minimally affect hepatic integrity and function in elderly patients.	Hepatic blood flow is reduced in a dose-related manner by all inhaled anesthetics now in use. We assessed hepatic function in elderly patients anesthetized with desflurane or sevoflurane. We measured the cytosolic liver enzyme alpha glutathione S-transferase (alpha GST), the formation of the lidocaine metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX), and gastric mucosal tonometry-derived variables as sensitive markers of hepatic function and splanchnic perfusion. Thirty patients, 70 to 90 yr old, were allocated randomly to receive desflurane or sevoflurane anesthesia. Anesthetic exposure ranged from 2.1-4.5 minimum alveolar concentration hours. No significant changes in standard liver enzyme markers were seen throughout the study. In both anesthetic groups, tonometric measurements showed a significant decrease from baseline in regional PCO(2), regional to arterial difference in PCO(2), and intramucosal pH at 90 min after skin incision. alpha GST concentrations increased significantly in both groups (desflurane: median peak concentrations 5.8 microg/L [25th, 75th percentile 5.3 microg/L, 7.2 microg/L]; sevoflurane: 7.0 microg/L [5.8 microg/L, 7.3 microg/L]) without showing differences between both anesthetic groups. A return to baseline values in tonometric values and alpha GST levels was seen 24 h postoperatively. MEGX formation did not change significantly after surgery. Median MEGX concentrations postoperatively were 70.0 ng/mL (56.2 ng/mL, 102.0 ng/mL) and 70.0 ng/mL (60.0 ng/mL, 94.2 ng/mL) in the desflurane and sevoflurane groups, respectively. We conclude that, overall, liver function in elderly patients is well preserved during desflurane and sevoflurane anesthesia. Increased serum levels of alpha GST and changes of gastric tonometry-derived variables imply a reduction in splanchnic perfusion, leading to a temporary impairment of hepatocyte oxygenation. We measured the lidocaine metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide, the cytosolic liver enzyme, alpha glutathione S-transferase, and gastric mucosal tonometry-derived variables to evaluate the effects of desflurane and sevoflurane on hepatic function in elderly patients. Liver function was well preserved, whereas increased alpha glutathione S-transferase levels and changes in tonometry-derived variables indicated a reduction in splanchnic blood flow and a temporary impairment of hepatocyte oxygenation for both anesthetics.
10870095	Inhibition of human cytochrome P450 isoforms in vitro by zafirlukast.	Zafirlukast is a cysteinyl leukotriene antagonist used to treat allergic and exercise-induced asthma. This in vitro study used human liver microsomes to evaluate the inhibitory activity of zafirlukast versus six human cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. Zafirlukast (0-250 microM) was co-incubated with fixed concentrations of index substrates. Zafirlukast inhibited the hydroxylation of tolbutamide (CYP2C9; mean IC(50)=7.0 microM), triazolam (CYP3A; IC(50)=20.9 microM) and S-mephenytoin (CYP2C19; IC(50)=32.7 microM), and was a less potent inhibitor of phenacetin O-deethylation (CYP1A2; IC(50)=56 microM) and dextromethorphan O-demethylation (CYP2D6; IC(50)=116 microM). Zafirlukast produced negligible inhibition of CYP2E1. In vitro inhibition of CYP2C9 by zafirlukast is consistent with clinical studies showing impaired clearance of S-warfarin and enhanced anti-thrombotic effects, although the in vitro IC(50) value is higher than the usual range of clinically relevant plasma concentrations. Zafirlukast deserves further clinical study as an inhibitor of other CYP2C9 substrates such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, tolbutamide, phenytoin and mestranol. Clinically important inhibition by zafirlukast of other CYP isoforms is not established.
10870985	Prediction of in vivo interaction between triazolam and erythromycin based on in vitro studies using human liver microsomes and recombinant human CYP3A4.	To quantitatively predict the in vivo interaction between triazolam and erythromycin, which involves mechanism-based inhibition of CYP3A4, from in vitro studies using human liver microsomes (HLM) and recombinant human CYP3A4 (REC). HLM or REC was preincubated with erythromycin in the presence of NADPH and then triazolam was added. alpha- and 4-hydroxy (OH) triazolam were quantified after a 3 min incubation and the kinetic parameters for enzyme inactivation (k(inact) and K('app)) were obtained. Drug-drug interaction in vivo was predicted based on a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model, using triazolam and erythromycin pharmacokinetic parameters obtained from the literature and kinetic parameters for the enzyme inactivation obtained in the in vitro studies. Whichever enzyme was used, triazolam metabolism was not inhibited without preincubation, even if the erythromycin concentration was increased. The degree of inhibition depended on preincubation time and erythromycin concentration. The values obtained for k(inact) and K('app) were 0.062 min(-1) and 15.9 microM (alpha-OH, HLM), 0.055 min(-1) and 17.4 microM (4-OH, HLM), 0.173 min(-1) and 19.1 microM (alpha-OH, REC), and 0.097 min(-1) and 18.9 microM (4-OH, REC). Based on the kinetic parameters obtained using HLM and REC, the AUCpo of triazolam was predicted to increase 2.0- and 2.6-fold, respectively, following oral administration of erythromycin (333 mg t.i.d. for 3 days), which agreed well with the reported data. In vivo interaction between triazolam and erythromycin was successfully predicted from in vitro data based on a PBPK model involving a mechanism-based inhibition of CYP3A4.
10872592	Determination of enantiomeric amphetamines as metabolites of illicit amphetamines and selegiline in urine by capillary electrophoresis using modified beta-cyclodextrin.	The determination of enantiomeric amphetamine and methamphetamine in urine samples is important in order to distinguish use of the prescription drug selegiline (metabolized to R(-)-A and R(-)-MA) from the illicit use of S(+)-A and S(+)-MA. For the analysis of enantiomeric amphetamine (A) and methamphetamine (MA) in biological samples, the optimization of analytical condition was performed by capillary electrophoresis using chiral selectors including beta-cyclodextrin, carboxymethyl-beta-cyclodextrin and 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin. We have examined the factors to obtain the best chiral resolutions, separation efficiency and sensitivity, and wide concentration linearity. Optimum resolutions were achieved using 100 mM phosphate buffer, pH 2.5, containing 10 mM of carboxymethyl-beta-cyclodextrin. This method was applied for the quantitative determination of enantiomeric amphetamine and methamphetamine in urine samples obtained from patients taking illicit amphetamines or from rats and patients taking selegiline. Acceptable quantitative results in terms of resolution, precision, sensitivity and linearity were obtained from the real urine samples containing wide-ranging concentrations of A and MA by using two concentrations of internal standards, alpha(+)- (1 microg/ml) and beta-phenylethylamine (50 microg/ml).
10872643	Population pharmacokinetics of levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease treated with tolcapone.	To use pharmacostatistical models to evaluate the overall exposure of patients with Parkinson's disease to levodopa in the presence and absence of tolcapone. Four hundred twelve patients with Parkinson's disease with fluctuating and nonfluctuating responses to levodopa participated in three multicentered, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled dose-finding studies and received either placebo or tolcapone in addition to levodopa-decarboxylase inhibitor therapy. Sparse blood samples were obtained from 393 patients for levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa assay, and the data were analyzed with use of the NONMEM program. The fraction of levodopa metabolized to 3-O-methyldopa was substantially reduced by the co-administration of tolcapone (by 65%, 74%, and 84% with tolcapone doses of 50, 200, and 400 mg, respectively, in fluctuators, and by 50% and 90% with doses of 200 and 400 mg, respectively, in nonfluctuators). This led to an overall reduction in levodopa clearance (CL) of approximately 15% to 25% in fluctuators and 20% to 30% in nonfluctuators. Because this was partly compensated for by a reduction in levodopa dose in these studies, the total daily exposure of patients to levodopa was only slightly increased (11% to 16%). The peak-trough fluctuations of plasma levodopa (Cmax-Cmin) were reduced in both populations in a dose-dependent fashion. Tolcapone effectively inhibited the formation of 3-O-methyldopa and resulted in a decrease in levodopa CL. The consequent increase in levodopa bioavailability was mostly offset by reductions in levodopa dose. It is possible that decreased fluctuations in plasma levodopa concentrations rather than increased levodopa exposure may explain the clinical benefits obtained with tolcapone.
10874125	In vitro metabolism of acitretin by human liver microsomes: evidence of an acitretinoyl-coenzyme A thioester conjugate in the transesterification to etretinate.	The aromatic retinoid acitretin is the primary active metabolite of etretinate, and in this study we investigated the ethyl esterification of acitretin to etretinate using [(14)C]acitretin and human liver microsomes. Samples were analysed by TLC, HPLC, and LC-MS. Essential requirements for the transesterification reaction were identified and included viable microsomal protein, ATP, CoASH, and ethanol. Human liver microsomes catalysed formation of acitretinoyl-CoA at the rate of 0.08 +/- 0.02 nmol/min/mg (mean +/- SD, N = 10). Acitretinoyl-CoA was pivotal for the transesterification to etretinate and in the presence of methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, n-butanol, and hexanol, the corresponding esters, namely methyl-, ethyl (etretinate)-, propyl-, butyl-, and hexyl-acitretinate, were formed. On average, 1.7% of the acitretin present in the incubation was converted to etretinate in the presence of ethanol. In the absence of ethanol, transesterification did not proceed. Inhibition of the ester hydrolysis of etretinate by bis-p-nitrophenylphosphate (BNPP, 1 mM) prevented futile cycling of etretinate via acitretinoyl-CoA. An additional finding was that acitretin (15-30 microM) activated significantly human liver microsomal long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase (E.C.6.2.1.3, LCL), resulting in enhanced formation of palmitoyl-CoA. This study demonstrated that in the presence of ethanol the ethyl esterification of acitretin to etretinate proceeds via formation of acitretinoyl-CoA. Predicting clearance of acitretin in vivo via this unique metabolic pathway will be a challenge, as the intracellular concentration of ethanol could never be predicted with any degree of accuracy in humans.
10895987	Inhibitory effects of silibinin on cytochrome P-450 enzymes in human liver microsomes.	Silibinin, the main constituent of silymarin, a flavonoid drug from silybum marianum used in liver disease, was tested for inhibition of human cytochrome P-450 enzymes. Metabolic activities were determined in liver microsomes from two donors using selective substrates. With each substrate, incubations were carried out with and without silibinin (concentrations 3.7-300 microM) at 37 degrees in 0.1 M KH2PO4 buffer containing up to 3% DMSO. Metabolite concentrations were determined by HPLC or direct spectroscopy. First, silibinin IC50 values were determined for each substrate at respective K(M) concentrations. Silibinin had little effect (IC50>200 microM) on the metabolism of erythromycin (CYP3A4), chlorzoxazone (CYP2E1), S(+)-mephenytoin (CYP2C19), caffeine (CYP1A2) or coumarin (CYP2A6). A moderate effect was observed for high affinity dextromethorphan metabolism (CYP2D6) in one of the microsomes samples tested only (IC50=173 microM). Clear inhibition was found for denitronifedipine oxidation (CYP3A4; IC50=29 microM and 46 microM) and S(-)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation (CYP2C9; IC50=43 microM and 45 microM). When additional substrate concentrations were tested to assess enzyme kinetics, silibinin was a potent competitive inhibitor of dextromethorphan metabolism at the low affinity site, which is not CYP2D6 (Ki.c=2.3 microM and 2.4 microM). Inhibition was competitive for S(-)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation (Ki,c=18 microM and 19 microM) and mainly non-competitive for denitronifedipine oxidation (Ki,n=9 microM and 12 microM). With therapeutic silibinin peak plasma concentrations of 0.6 microM and biliary concentrations up to 200 microM, metabolic interactions with xenobiotics metabolised by CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 cannot be excluded.
10901138	Simultaneous determination of thioTEPA, TEPA and a novel, recently identified thioTEPA metabolite, monochloroTEPA, in urine using capillary gas chromatography.	An assay for the simultaneous quantitative determination of thioTEPA, TEPA and the recently identified metabolite N,N'-diethylene-N"-2-chloroethylphosphoramide (monochloroTEPA) in human urine has been developed. MonochloroTEPA was synthesized by incubation of TEPA with sodium chloride at pH 8. Thus, with this assay monochloroTEPA is quantified as TEPA equivalents. Analysis of the three analytes in urine was performed using gas chromatography with selective nitrogen-phosphorous detection after extraction with a mixture of 1-propanol and chloroform from urine samples. Diphenylamine was used as internal standard. Recoveries ranged between 70 and 100% and both accuracy and precision were less than 15%. Linearity was accomplished in the range of 25-2500 ng/ml for monochloroTEPA and 25-5000 ng/ml for thioTEPA and TEPA. MonochloroTEPA proved to be stable in urine for at least 4 weeks at -80 degrees C. ThioTEPA, TEPA and monochloroTEPA cummulative urinary excretion from two patients treated with thioTEPA are presented demonstrating the applicability of the assay for clinical samples and that the excreted amount of monochloroTEPA exceeded that of thioTEPA on day 2 to 5 of urine collection.
10901286	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and phenols glucuronidation in Caco-2 cells: identification of the UDP-glucuronosyltransferases UGT1A6, 1A3 and 2B7.	Glucuronidation of phenols (1-naphthol, 4-methylumbelliferone) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ketoprofen, naproxen and carprofen was investigated in human colon carcinoma Caco-2 cell clones. Glucuronidation of these substances was highly effective in microsomes of the clones PD-7 and TC-7, but much lower in the PF-11 clone. The activity increased up to a maximum after 21 days of culture. RT-PCR experiments indicated that the PD-7 and TC-7 clones expressed the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms UGT1A6, UGT1A3 and UGT2B7, which could account for the glucuronidation of phenols and carboxylic acids observed. Beta-naphthoflavone stimulated by 2-fold the enzyme activity toward 1-naphthol in PD-7 and TC-7 clones, but not in PF-11 cells. This increase was parallel to that of the UGT1A6 mRNA level. Glucuronidation of ketoprofen was also sensitive to the inducing effect of beta-naphthoflavone. Actinomycin D and cycloheximide did not affect the induction of UGT1A6 by beta-naphthoflavone, but suppressed that of ketoprofen UGT. The UGT1A3 mRNA content was enhanced by beta-naphthoflavone; by contrast, that of UGT2B7 was insensitive to the inducer. In conclusion, several UGT isoforms of both families 1 and 2, which glucuronidate phenols and carboxylic NSAIDs, have been identified in Caco-2 cells. They are differently sensitive to beta-naphthoflavone.
10907965	Lack of interaction between citalopram and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam.	To determine the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram on plasma levels of triazolam, and to determine the effect of a single dose of triazolam on steady-state levels of citalopram and its major metabolites. Open-label, multidose study. Clinical Studies, Ltd., Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Eighteen healthy male and female volunteers. Subjects received triazolam 0.25 mg alone and another 0.25-mg dose after 4 weeks of citalopram 20 mg/day for 1 week, followed by 3 weeks of citalopram 40 mg/day Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined after single-dose administration of triazolam alone, after administration of citalopram alone at steady state, and after coadministration of the drugs. The pharmacokinetics of triazolam and its metabolite alpha-hydroxytriazolam were unchanged by citalopram coadministration. Triazolam appeared to be absorbed slightly more quickly during coadministration. Citalopram kinetics were unaffected by coadministration. No pharmacokinetic interaction between the drugs was observed, suggesting that triazolam and other cytochrome P450 3A4 substrates can be coadministered safely with citalopram.
10923861	Expression and induction of CYP1A1/1A2, CYP2A6 and CYP3A4 in primary cultures of human hepatocytes: a 10-year follow-up.	1. The aims were to refine experimental conditions (using 76 human hepatocyte preparations) in terms of the selection of enzyme inducers and their optimal concentration, the treatment duration with inducers and the choice of specific cytochrome P450 isoform(s) probes to optimize the use of primary hepatocytes for predicting the potential induction by new chemical entities of cytochrome P450 isoforms in vivo in man. 2. In the absence of any inducer, basal cytochrome P450 isoform(s)-mediated activities decreased to 20% of their initial activity (end of the seeding period) by 72-96 h. In contrast, UGT-dependent enzyme activities remained at a constant level (+/- 20%) up to the fifth day of culture. 3. Beta-naphthoflavone, at an optimal concentration of 50 microM and after a 3-day treatment, specifically and potently induced 7-ethoxyresorufin (10.4 +/- 10.4-fold, n = 74) and phenacetin (6.6 +/- 6.4-fold, n = 60) O-deethylation processes, markers for CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 isoforms respectively. Only a 2-fold increase was noted following treatment with 2 mM phenobarbitone, whereas dexamethasone and rifampicin had no effect at all. 4. A 3-day treatment of human hepatocytes with 50 microM dexamethasone was associated with a major induction of both coumarin 7-hydroxylation (9.4 +/- 11.4-fold, n = 49) and nifedipine dehydrogenation (4.7 +/- 3.8-fold, n = 61), markers for CYP2A6 and CYP3A4 respectively. Phenobarbitone, however, exhibited a broad but moderate inducing effect on 7-ethoxyresorufin (2.2 +/- 1.5-fold, n = 55) and phenacetin (1.7 +/- 0.9-fold, n = 54) O-deethylation, coumarin 7-hydroxylation (3.9 +/- 9.2-fold, n = 50) and nifedipine dehydrogenation (2.1 +/- 2.0-fold, n = 47). 5. Km obtained for the different cytochrome P450 isoform substrates in untreated hepatocytes were in the same range of magnitude that those determined on human hepatic microsomal fractions. Enzyme induction processes were characterized by a large increase in apparent Vmax whereas apparent Km were not affected. 6. These studies demonstrate that human hepatocytes in primary culture can respond specifically and quantitatively to model inducers. This in vitro system offers a useful approach to study the regulation of human hepatic biotransformation activities and should facilitate the demand for a reproducible method for addressing cytochrome P450 induction.
10934669	Variable absorption of carbidopa affects both peripheral and central levodopa metabolism.	Carbidopa (CD), a competitive inhibitor of aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase that does not cross the blood-brain barrier, is routinely administered with levodopa (LD) to patients with Parkinson disease (PD) to reduce the peripheral decarboxylation of LD to dopamine. Using a stable isotope-labeled form of LD, the authors examined in 9 PD patients the effects of variable CD absorption on peripheral and central LD metabolism. Subjects were administered orally 50 mg of CD followed in 1 hour by a slow bolus intravenous infusion of 150 mg stable isotope-labeled LD (ring 1',2',3',4',5',6'-13C). Eight patients underwent a lumbar puncture 6 hours following the infusion. Blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were analyzed for labeled and unlabeled metabolites using a combination of high-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. When patients were divided into "slow" and "rapid" CD absorption groups, significantly greater peripheral LD decarboxylation (as measured by area under the curve [AUC]-labeled serum HVA) was noted in the poor absorbers (p = 0.05, Mann-Whitney U test). Elimination half-lives for serum LD did not differ between groups, suggesting a further capacity for decarboxylation inhibition in the "rapid" absorbers. A significant correlation between AUC serum CD and percent-labeled HVA in CSF was found for all patients (R = 0.786, p = 0.02). "Rapid" as compared to "slow" CD absorbers had significantly more percent-labeled CSF HVA (60 vs. 49, p = 0.02, Mann-Whitney U test), indicating greater central-labeled DA production in the better CD absorbers. The data suggest that peripheral aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase activity is not saturated at CD doses used in current practice. The authors believe that future studies to better examine a dose dependence of CD on peripheral LD decarboxylation and LD brain uptake are warranted.
10934671	Pharmacokinetics of ofloxacin enantiomers after intravenous administration for antibiotic prophylaxis in biliary surgery.	The pharmacokinetics of S-(-)- and R-(+)-ofloxacin, enantiomers of the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin, were characterized after prophylactic administration in 15 patients undergoing elective biliary surgery. A single dose of ofloxacin 400 mg given intravenously as an infusion was administered 1 hour before surgery. Plasma levels of S-(-)- and R-(+)-ofloxacin showed very small differences between both enantiomers, although the ratio of S-(-)- to R-(+)-enantiomer concentration in plasma showed significant differences (p < 0.05) at 4 and 12 hours. Adequate S-(-)-ofloxacin (levofloxacin, the active enantiomer) plasma levels (> or = minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC90] for Escherichia coli) were found throughout the procedure. For pharmacokinetic parameters, the authors found small but statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in the area under the concentration-time curve, AUC0-infinity (22.30 +/- 2.72 mg h/L for S-(-)-ofloxacin vs. 20.50 +/- 2.06 mg h/L for R-(+)-ofloxacin), and in the clearance (0.15 +/- 0.04 L/h/Kg for S-(-)-ofloxacin vs. 0.16 +/- 0.04 L/h/Kg for R-(+)-ofloxacin). To test the penetration of ofloxacin enantiomers into tissues, the authors measured levels in subcutaneous cell tissue and gall-bladder cell tissue. They did not observe statistical differences between the two isomers, which means that distribution is not an estereoselective process. Enantiomer levels in these two tissues decreased rapidly, but the highest concentrations were reached during the 4 first hours (i.e., when the surgical procedure was being performed). In conclusion, with the prophylactic treatment used, levofloxacin plasma and tissue levels are high enough to prevent surgical infections.
10954350	Methylation of 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine by thiopurine S-methyltransferase. A comparison of activity in red blood cell samples of 199 blood donors.	To compare 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) and 6-thioguanine (6-TG) as substrates for the methylation reaction catalysed by the enzyme thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT). TPMT activity in haemolysed red blood cells of healthy blood donors was determined twice, using the same experimental setting and equal molar concentrations of 6-TG and 6-MP as substrates. After extraction, the reaction products 6-methyl-TG and 6-methyl-MP were quantified using specific high-performance liquid chromatography procedures. The medians of the TPMT activities from 199 blood donors were 54.4 nmol 6-MTG g(-1)Hb h(-1) when measured with 6-TG as the substrate and 35.8 nmol 6-MMP g(-1) Hb h(-1) when measured with 6-MP. The correlation coefficient for the 199 pairs of values was 0.8695. On average, TPMT activity was 34% lower with 6-MP as substrate than with 6-TG as substrate.
10956067	N-Acetylbenzidine-DNA adduct formation by phorbol 12-myristate-stimulated human polymorphonuclear neutrophils.	N'-(3'-Monophosphodeoxyguanosin-8-yl)-N-acetylbenzidine (dGp-ABZ) is the major adduct in exfoliated urothelial cells and in peripheral white blood cells of workers exposed to benzidine. This study was designed to assess the metabolic pathways leading to dGp-ABZ formation in human peripheral white blood cells. [(3)H]-N-Acetylbenzidine (ABZ) transformation was assessed using myeloperoxidase (MPO), hypochlorous acid (HOCl), and human peripheral white blood cells in the absence and presence of DNA or dGp. MPO metabolism required H(2)O(2), but not NaCl. While transformation by HOCl was completely inhibited by 10 mM taurine, the level of metabolism of ABZ by MPO was only reduced 56%. Transformation by either MPO or HOCl was inhibited by 100 mM DMPO, 1 mM glutathione, and 1 mM ascorbic acid. Glutathione formed a new product with MPO, but not with HOCl. Previously identified oxidation products of ABZ, N'-hydroxy-N-acetylbenzidine or 4'-nitro-4-acetylaminobiphenyl, were not detected. With DNA or dGp present, a new product was observed that corresponded to synthetic dGp-ABZ in its HPLC elution profile, in nuclease P(1) hydrolysis to dG-ABZ, and in (32)P-postlabeling analysis. The HOCl-derived adduct was identified by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, with collision-activated dissociation, as dGp-ABZ. Metabolism of [(3)H]ABZ by peripheral blood cells was stimulated about 3-fold with 30 ng/mL beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). Using (32)P-postlabeling, dGp-ABZ was detected only in the presence of PMA and its level was increased more than 300-fold if either 0.7 mg/mL DNA or dGp was present. Indomethacin (0.1 mM) did not alter adduct formation. With dGp, dGp-ABZ formation could be detected with as little as 0.12 x 10(6) neutrophils. Using specific chromatographic and enzymatic techniques, neutrophil-derived dGp-ABZ was identical to the synthetic standard. Thus, these results are consistent with human polymorphonuclear neutrophils forming dGp-ABZ by a peroxidatic mechanism involving MPO.
10972481	Reduction of cyclophosphamide bioactivation by thioTEPA: critical sequence-dependency in high-dose chemotherapy regimens.	Cyclophosphamide and thioTEPA are frequently used simultaneously in high-dose chemotherapy regimens. During a pharmacokinetic study of 31 courses in 20 patients of cyclophosphamide and its activated metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide given in the combination cyclophosphamide thioTEPA carboplatin, a sharp decrease in 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide concentration was observed immediately after the start of the thioTEPA infusion. A drug-drug interaction was suspected. This putative interaction was investigated in this study. Possible sequence dependency, due to inhibition of the formation of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide by thioTEPA, was investigated by altering the sequence of infusion in three patients (four courses) receiving high-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (1,000 or 1,500 mg/m2 per day), thioTEPA (80 or 120 mg/m2 per day) and carboplatin (265 or 400 mg/m2 per day) in short infusions for four consecutive days. The pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide were established. Possible inhibition of the metabolism of cyclophosphamide and thioTEPA was investigated in human microsomes. A striking sequence dependency of the pharmacokinetics of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide was observed. Administration of thioTEPA 1 h prior to cyclophosphamide resulted in decreased Cmax (-62%) and AUC (-26%) values of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide compared to those of thioTEPA administered 1 h after cyclophosphamide. In human microsomes an inhibition of the conversion of cyclophosphamide to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide by thioTEPA was observed at clinically relevant concentrations with an IC50 of 23 microM. No inhibition of the formation of TEPA by cyclophosphamide was observed. ThioTEPA strongly inhibits the bioactivation of cyclophosphamide and this may decrease both efficacy and toxicity. Our results seriously question the practice of the simultaneous continuous infusion of cyclophosphamide and thioTEPA and suggest that the sequencing and scheduling of these two agents in high-dose chemotherapy regimens may be of critical importance.
10976551	Quinidine as a probe for CYP3A4 activity: intrasubject variability and lack of correlation with probe-based assays for CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6.	In vitro studies have shown that the formation of 3-hydroxyquinidine from quinidine is catalyzed almost exclusively by CYP3A4. In vivo this result has been supported in various interaction studies, and the use of this reaction as an in vivo biomarker reaction of CYP3A4 activity has been suggested. We studied the possible correlation of the formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine with probe-based assays for CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6. Descriptive analyses of the outcome of various biomarker reactions were performed. Forty-two healthy, young male volunteers participated in an open study consisting of two identical test periods separated by a 12- to 14-week washout period. In each period biomarker reactions of CYP1A2 (caffeine), CYP2C9 (tolbutamide), CYP2C19 (mephenytoin), CYP2D6 (sparteine), CYP3A4 (urinary excretion of 6beta-hydroxycortisol), as well as the pharmacokinetics of quinidine after a 200-mg single oral dose of quinidine sulfate were studied. The median formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine were 2.40 and 2.33 L/h in the two test periods. As measured by the formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine, the intraindividual coefficient of variation for CYP3A4 activity was 18%, whereas the interindividual activity varied fourfold. The formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine did not correlate with the outcome of indexes for activities of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or CYP2D6 or the urinary excretion of 6beta-hydroxycortisol. The formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine correlated well to point values of 3-hydroxyquinidine to quinidine ratios in plasma and urine. The formation clearance of 3-hydroxyquinidine after a single oral dose of 200 mg quinidine sulfate may represent a useful index of CYP3A4 activity in vivo.
10985967	Human term placental lipoxygenase-mediated N-demethylation of phenothiazines and insecticides in the presence of linoleic acid.	This study investigated the hypothesis that human term placental lipoxygenase (HTPLO) and soybean lipoxygenase (SLO) are capable of mediating N-demethylation of selected phenothiazines and insecticides in the presence of linoleic acid (LA). In addition to being LA dependent, the N-demethylation reaction mediated by HTPLO and SLO was limited by incubation time, pH of the medium, concentration of the enzyme and the substrate. Using Nash reagent to monitor formaldehyde production, the specific activity for LA-dependent N-demethylation of chlorpromazine, a model phenothiazine, was determined to be 1.7+/-0.3 nmoles/min/mg HTPLO. Besides chlorpromazine, N-demethylation of promazine, promethazine and trimeprazine was also observed. The insecticide, aminocarb, displayed a specific activity of 2.2+/-0.3 nmoles/min/mg HTPLO for N-demethylation. Other insecticides, namely chlordimeform, dicrotophos and zectran, were oxidized in a similar manner. As compared with HTPLO, the rates of N-demethylation of phenothiazines and insecticides mediated by SLO were higher. Classical inhibitors of lipoxygenase, as well as antioxidants and free radical scavengers, caused a dose-dependent reduction in the production of formaldehyde from chlorpromazine and aminocarb by HTPLO. These results clearly demonstrate the ability of polyunsaturated free fatty acids to support N-demethylation of xenobiotics via the lipoxygenase pathway.
10993521	Quantitation of loperamide and N-demethyl-loperamide in human plasma using electrospray ionization with selected reaction ion monitoring liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	We report here the development and validation of an LC-MS method for quantitation of loperamide (LOP) and its N-demethyl metabolite (DMLOP) in human plasma. O-Acetyl-loperamide (A-LOP) was synthesized by us for use as an internal standard in the assay. After addition of the internal standard, the compounds of interest were extracted with methyl tert.-butylether and separated by HPLC on a C18 reversed-phase column using an acetonitrile-water gradient containing 20 mM ammonium acetate. The three compounds were well separated by HPLC and no interfering peaks were detected at the usual concentrations found in plasma. Analytes were quantitated using positive electrospray ionization in a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in the MS-MS mode. Selected reaction monitoring was used to quantify LOP (m/z 477-266), DMLOP (m/z 463-->252) and A-LOP (m/z 519-->266) on ions formed by loss of the 4-(p-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxy-piperidyl group upon low energy collision-induced dissociation. Calibration curves, which were linear over the range 1.04 to 41.7 pmol/ml (LOP) and 1.55 to 41.9 pmol/ml (DMLOP), were run contemporaneously with each batch of samples, along with low (4.2 pmol/ml), medium (16.7 pmol/ml) and high (33.4 pmol/ml) quality control samples. The lower limit of quantitation (LLQ) of LOP and DMLOP was about 0.25 pmol/ml in plasma. The extraction efficiency of LOP and DMLOP from human plasma was 72.3+/-1.50% (range: 70.7-73.7%) and 79.4+/-12.8% (64.9-88.8%), respectively. The intra- and inter-assay variability of LOP and DMLOP ranged from 2.1 to 14.5% for the low, medium and high quality control samples. The method has been used successfully to study loperamide pharmacokinetics in adult humans.
11001387	Characterization of CPT-11 converting carboxylesterase activity in colon tumor and normal tissues: comparison with p-nitro-phenylacetate converting carboxylesterase activity.	Irinotecan (CPT-11) is a topoisomerase I inhibitor commonly used in the treatment of colorectal tumors. It is a prodrug, converted to an active metabolite, SN-38, by carboxylesterases (CEs). CEs are ubiquitary enzymes that react with numerous substrates. A specific CPT-11 converting enzyme was isolated from rat serum, with different kinetic properties than other CEs. We determined kinetic properties of specific CPT-11 CE activity (CPT-CE) in human normal liver and colon tumors. Km were very similar (3.4 microM in liver and 3.8 microM in colon tumors), but Vmax was higher in liver (2.7 pmol/min/mg protein) than in colon tumor (1.7 pmol/min/mg protein). CPT-CE and total CE (using p-nitro-phenylacetate as substrate) were weakly correlated in colon tumors. The large interpatient variability observed in liver CPT-CE activity could play a potential role in the pharmacokinetic variability observed with irinotecan.
11007345	Urinary methanol and formic acid as indicators of occupational exposure to methyl formate.	To evaluate the validity of methanol (MeOH) and formic acid (FA) in urine as biological indicators of methyl formate (MF) exposure in experimental and field situations. The subjects were 28 foundrymen and two groups of volunteers (20 control and 20 exposed). Exposure assessment of the workers was performed by personal air and biological monitoring. Methyl formate vapour collected on charcoal tube was analysed by gas chromatography. The concentration of MF in the exposure chamber (volunteer-study) was monitored by two independent methods [flame ionisation detection (FID) and Fourier transformation infra-red detection (FTIR)]. Urinary metabolites (MeOH and FA) were analysed separately by headspace gas chromatography. The volunteers exposed to 100 ppm MF vapour at rest for 8 h excreted 3.62 +/- 1.13 mg MeOH/l (mean +/- SD) at the end of the exposure. This was statistically different (P < 0.001) from pre-exposure MeOH excretion (2.15 +/- 0.80 mg/1), or from that of controls (1.69 +/- 0.48 mg/l). The urinary FA excretion was 32.2 +/- 11.3 mg/g creatinine after the exposure, which was statistically different (P < 0.001) from pre-exposure excretion (18.0 +/- 9.3 mg/g creatinine) or that of controls (13.8 +/- 7.9 mg/g creatinine). In foundrymen, the urinary FA excretion after the 8 h workshift exposure to a time weighted average (TWA) concentration of 2 to 156 ppm MF showed a dose-dependent increase best modelled by a polynomial function. The highest urinary FA concentration was 129 mg/g creatinine. The pre-shift urinary FA of the foundrymen (18.3 +/- 5.6 mg/g creatinine) did not differ from that of controls (13.8 +/- 7.9 mg/g creatinine). The urinary MeOH excretion of the foundrymen after the shift, varied from < 1 to 15.4 mg/l, while the correlation with the preceding MF exposure was poor. The foundrymen excreted more (P = 0.01) FA (2.12 +/- 3.56 mg/g creatinine) after the workshift than experimentally, once-exposed volunteers (0.32 +/- 0.11 mg/g creatinine) at a similar inhaled MF level of 1 ppm). In spite of its high background level in non-exposed subjects, urinary FA seems to be a useful biomarker of methyl formate exposure. The question remains as to what is the reason for the differences in chronic and acute exposure respectively.
1101753	Urinary metabolites of halothane in man.	The urinary metabolites of halothane (2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane) were investigated in five individuals given trace doses (25 muCi), and in three individuals given large doses (1 mCi) of radioactively labeled 14C-halothane. The latter were donor subjects for heart transplant operations. Separation of the nonvolatile urinary metabolites of halothane was accomplished by chemical extraction, electrophoresis, ion-exchange and high-pressure liquid chromatography, and gas chromatography. Identification of the individual metabolites was by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry. Three major metabolites were identified: trifluoroacetic acid, N-trifluoroacetyl-2-aminoethanol, and N-acetyl-S-(2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethyl)-L-cysteine. Smaller unidentified radioactive peaks were also found. The presence of both ethanolamide and cysteine conjugates of halothane is of concern. These urinary products imply the presence of reactive intermediates. The conjugation of such intermediates to proteins and phospholipids may give rise to the high-molecular-weight covalently bound metabolites demonstrated to be present in the liver following halothane anesthesia. Elucidation of the structures of the urinary metabolites provides information important to an understanding of halothane metabolism and its potential hepatotoxicity.
11026737	Cytochrome P-450 enzymes and FMO3 contribute to the disposition of the antipsychotic drug perazine in vitro.	Perazine (PER) is a phenothiazine antipsychotic drug frequently used in Germany that undergoes extensive metabolism. To anticipate metabolic drug interactions and to explore the relevance of polymorphisms of metabolic enzymes, perazine-N-demethylation and perazine-N-oxidation were investigated in vitro using human liver microsomes and cDNA expressed enzymes. CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 were identified as the major enzymes mediating PER-N-demethylation. At 10 microM PER, a concentration consistent with anticipated in vivo liver concentrations, CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 contributed 50% and 35%, respectively, to PER-N-demethylation. With increasing PER concentrations, contribution of CYP2C9 decreased and CYP3A4 became more important. In human liver microsomes, PER-N-demethylation was inhibited by ketoconazole (>40%) and sulfaphenazole (16%). Allelic variants of recombinant CYP2C9 showed differences in PER-N-demethylase activity. The wild type allele CYP2C9*1 was the most active variant. Maximal activities of CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 were 88% and 18%, respectively, compared to the wild type activity. Perazine-N-oxidation was mainly mediated by FMO3. In the absence of NADPH, heat treatment of microsomes abolished PER-N-oxidase activity. Methimazole inhibited PER-N-oxidation, while CYP specific inhibitors had no inhibitory effect. Perazine is a potent inhibitor of dextromethorphan-O-demethylase, S-mephenytoin-hydroxylase, alprazolam-4-hydroxylase, phenacetin-O-deethylase and tolbutamide-hydroxylase activity in human liver microsomes. Alterations in the activity of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and FMO3 through genetic polymorphisms, enzyme induction or inhibition bear the potential to cause clinically significant changes in perazine clearance. PER may alter the clearance of coadministered compounds metabolized by CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2.
11030450	Pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide (CP) and 4-OH-CP/aldophosphamide in systemic vasculitis.	Cyclophosphamide given in association with corticosteroids has markedly improved the prognosis of systemic vasculitis. Little information has been reported on cyclophosphamide pharmacokinetics in these diseases and data evaluating its metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide/aldophosphamide, pharmacokinetics and concentrations are lacking. Cyclophosphamide was administered as a 1-h intravenous infusion every 3 weeks for six cycles to ten vasculitis patients. Serum cyclophosphamide and 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide/aldophosphamide concentrations were assayed on the first cycle of the treatment by reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. The mean (+/- SD) 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide/aldophosphamide and cyclophosphamide areas under the serum concentration-time curves were, respectively, 1.86 +/- 1.12 and 154.1 +/- 62.7 mg/L x h with a ratio of 1.30 +/- 0.76%. The mean maximum serum 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide/aldophosphamide was reached 2.3 h after cyclophosphamide administration. The mean (+/- SD) cyclophosphamide and 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide/aldophosphamide half-lives were, respectively, 5.5 +/- 3.1 and 7.6 +/- 2.3 h. The results are consistent with those obtained for cancer patients, in spite of a wide interpatient variability of concentrations and pharmacokinetic parameters.
11034785	Distinct Effect of Benzalkonium Chloride on the Esterase and Aryl Acylamidase Activities of Butyrylcholinesterase.	Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) from vertebrates, other than their predominant acylcholine hydrolase (esterase) activity, display a genuine aryl acylamidase activity (AAA) capable of hydrolyzing the synthetic substrate o-nitroacetanilide to o-nitroaniline. This AAA activity is strongly inhibited by classical cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors. In the present study, benzalkonium chloride (BAC), a cationic detergent widely used as a preservative in pharmaceutical preparations, has been shown to distinctly modulate the esterase and AAA activities of BChEs. The detergent BAC was able to inhibit the esterase activity of human serum and horse serum BChEs and AChEs from electric eel and human erythrocyte. The remarkable property of BAC was its ability to profoundly activate the AAA activity of human serum and horse serum BChEs but not the AAA activity of AChEs. Thus BAC seem to preferentially activate the AAA activity of BChEs alone. Results of the study using the ChE active site-specific inhibitor diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate indicated that BAC binds to the active site of ChEs. Furthermore, studies using a structural homolog of BAC indicated that the alkyl group of BAC is essential not only for its interaction with ChEs but also for its distinct effect on the esterase and AAA activities of BChEs. This is the first report of a compound that inhibits the esterase activity, while simultaneously activating the AAA activity, of BChEs. Copyright 2000 Academic Press.
11043672	Loxapine intoxication: case report and literature review.	Loxapine is a dibenzoxazepine tricyclic compound used to treat schizophrenia in the United States since 1976. Metabolism includes demethylation to its primary metabolite, amoxapine. There are few documented reports of the disposition of loxapine in deaths due to overdose. This report discusses the overdose suicide of a 69-year-old white female found dead in her home by her husband. A prescription for loxapine (50-mg capsules) was found near the body. An autopsy was performed and heart blood, bile, vitreous humor, and gastric contents were submitted for toxicological analysis. The blood specimen was subjected to comprehensive testing that included volatile analysis by headspace gas chromatography (GC); acidic/neutral and basic drug screening by GC; benzodiazepine screening by high-performance liquid chromatography; opiate screening by modified immunoassay; and acetaminophen, salicylate, and ethchlorvynol screening by colorimetry. Loxapine and amoxapine were detected in the basic drug screen. No other drugs were detected in the case specimens. The respective concentrations of loxapine and amoxapine in each specimen were as follows: heart blood, 9.5 and 0.6 mg/L; bile, 28.8 and 4.7 mg/L; gastric, 278 mg/L and negative; and vitreous, 1.5 mg/L and negative. A review of the literature showed that the heart blood concentration of loxapine measured in this case was the highest reported to date. Based on the autopsy findings, patient history, and toxicology results, the cause of death was determined to be acute intoxication of loxapine and the manner, suicide.
11043753	Simple and selective determination of the cyclophosphamide metabolite phosphoramide mustard in human plasma using high-performance liquid chromatography.	A simple and selective assay for the determination of the alkylating cyclophosphamide metabolite phosphoramide mustard (PM) in plasma was developed and validated. PM was determined after derivatisation by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet detection at 276 nm. Sample pre-treatment consisted of derivatisation of PM with diethyldithiocarbamate (DDTC) at 70 degrees C for 10 min, followed by extraction with acetonitrile in the presence of 0.7 M sodium chloride. Phase separation occurred due to the high salt content of the aqueous phase. The HPLC system consisted of a C8 column with acetonitrile-0.025 M potassium phosphate buffer, pH 8.0, (32:68, v/v) as the mobile phase. The entire sample handling procedure, from collection at the clinical ward until analysis in the laboratory, was optimised and validated. Calibration curves were linear from 50 to 10,000 ng/ml. The lower limit of quantification and the limit of detection (using a signal-to-noise ratio of 3) were 50 and 40 ng/ml, respectively, using 500 microl of plasma. Within-day and between-day precisions were below 11% over the entire concentration range and the accuracies were between 100 and 106%. PM was found to be stable at -30 degrees C for at least 10 weeks both in plasma and as a DDTC-derivative in a dry sample. A pharmacokinetic pilot study in two patients receiving 1,000 mg/m2 CP in a 1-h infusion demonstrated the applicability of the assay.
11069439	Pharmacokinetics of SDZ RAD and cyclosporin including their metabolites in seven kidney graft patients after the first dose of SDZ RAD.	The aim of the study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the new immunosuppressant SDZ RAD during concomitant therapy with cyclosporin in stable renal transplant patients. Furthermore, we studied the influence of SDZ RAD on the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporin at steady state levels. SDZ RAD was administered orally in different doses (0.25-15 mg day-1) to seven patients, who were on standard cyclosporin-based immunosuppression. The blood concentrations of both drugs including their main groups of metabolites were measured simultaneously by LC/electrospray-mass spectrometry. The mean area under the blood concentration-time curve to 12 h (AUC(0,12 h)) was 4244 +/- 1311 microg l-1 h for cyclosporin before SDZ RAD treatment and 4683 +/- 1174 microg l-1 h (P = 0.106) on the day of SDZ RAD treatment (95% CI for difference -126, 1003). On both study days Cmax, and tmax of cyclosporin were not significantly different. The metabolite pattern of cyclosporin did not change. The pharmacokinetic data of SDZ RAD dose-normalized to 1 mg SDZ RAD were as follows: AUC(0,24 h): 35.4 +/- 13.1 microg l-1 h, Cmax: 7.9 +/- 2.7 microg l-1 and tmax: 1.5 +/- 0.9 h. The metabolites of SDZ RAD found in blood were hydroxy-SDZ RAD, dihydroxy-SDZ RAD, demethyl-SDZ RAD, and a ring-opened form of SDZ RAD. A single dose of SDZ RAD did not influence significantly the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporin. The most important metabolite of SDZ RAD was the hydroxy-SDZ RAD, its AUC(0,24 h) being nearly half that of the parent compound SDZ RAD.
11100951	Air and biological monitoring of solvent exposure during graffiti removal.	The principal aim of the study was to estimate the level of exposure to organic solvents of graffiti removers, and to identify the chemicals used in different cleaning agents. A secondary objective was to inform about the toxicity of various products and to optimise working procedures. Exposure to organic solvents was determined by active air sampling and biological monitoring among 38 graffiti removers during an 8-h work shift in the Stockholm underground system. The air samples and biological samples were analysed by gas chromatography. Exposure to organic solvents was also assessed by a questionnaire and interviews. Solvents identified were N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP), dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether (DPGME), propylene glycol monomethyl ether (PGME), diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (DEGEE), toluene, xylene, pseudocumene, hemimellitine, mesitylene, ethylbenzene, limonene, nonane, decane, undecane, hexandecane and gamma-butyrolactone. The 8-h average exposures [time-weighted average (TWA)] were below 20% of the Swedish permissible exposure limit value (PEL) for all solvents identified. In poorly ventilated spaces, e.g. in elevators etc., the short-term exposures exceeded occasionally the Swedish short-term exposure limit values (STEL). The blood and urine concentrations of NMP and its metabolites were low. Glycol ethers and their metabolites (2-methoxypropionic acid (MPA), ethoxy acetic acid (EAA), butoxy acetic acid (BAA), and 2-(2-methoxyethoxy) acetic acid (MEAA)) were found in low concentrations in urine. There were significant correlation between the concentrations of NMP in air and levels of NMP and its metabolites in blood and urine. The use of personal protective equipment, i.e. gloves and respirators, was generally high. Many different cleaning agents were used. The average exposure to solvents was low, but some working tasks included relatively high short-term exposure. To prevent adverse health effects, it is important to inform workers about the health risks and to restrict the use of the most toxic chemicals. Furthermore, it is important to develop good working procedures and to encourage the use of personal protection equipment.
11115505	Role of multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1) and glutathione S-transferase A1-1 in alkylating agent resistance. Kinetics of glutathione conjugate formation and efflux govern differential cellular sensitivity to chlorambucil versus melphalan toxicity.	We investigated the role of phase II (conjugation) and phase III (efflux) detoxification of the anticancer drugs melphalan (MLP) and chlorambucil (CHB). Although both drugs are substrates of Alpha-class glutathione S-transferases (GST) and the monoglutathionyl conjugates formed in these enzymatic reactions are transported by MRP1, we found that GSTA1-1 and MRP1 acted in synergy to confer resistance to CHB but not to MLP (Morrow, C. S., Smitherman, P. K., Diah, S. K., Schneider, E., and Townsend, A. J. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 20114-20120). To explain this selectivity of MRP1/GST-mediated resistance, we report results of side-by-side experiments comparing the kinetics of MLP- versus CHB-glutathione conjugate: formation, product inhibition of GSTA1-1 catalysis, and transport by MRP1. The monoglutathionyl conjugate of CHB, CHB-SG, is a very strong competitive inhibitor of GSTA1-1 (K(i) 0.14 microM) that is >30-fold more potent than that of the corresponding conjugate of MLP, MLP-SG (K(i) 4.7 microM). The efficiency of GSTA1-1-mediated monoglutathionyl conjugate formation is more than 4-fold higher for CHB than MLP. Lastly, both CHB-SG and MLP-SG are efficiently transported by MRP1 with similar V(max) although the K(m) for CHB-SG (0.37 microm) is significantly lower than for MLP-SG (1.1 microM). These results indicate that MRP1 is required for GSTA1-1-mediated resistance to CHB in order to relieve potent product inhibition of the enzyme by intracellular CHB-SG formed. The kinetic properties of MRP1 are well suited to eliminate CHB-SG at pharmacologically relevant concentrations. For MLP detoxification, where product inhibition of GSTA1-1 is less important, GSTA1-1 does not confer resistance because of the relatively poorer catalytic efficiency of MLP-SG formation. Similar analyses can be useful for predicting the pharmacological and toxicological consequences of MRP and GST expression on cellular sensitivity to various other electrophilic xenobiotics.
11116751	The effect of diflunisal on the elimination of triamterene in human volunteers.	A major metabolic pathway for triamterene (a potassium sparing diuretic) is aromatic hydroxylation followed by sulphate conjugation. Diflunisal (a salicylate anti-inflammatory agent) also undergoes sulphate conjugation of its phenolic group as a major pathway. We investigated the possible effect of diflunisal on the elimination of triamterene (competition for phenolic sulphonation) in six healthy volunteers by studying the disposition of single doses of triamterene (100 mg) taken alone and in the presence of steady-state levels of diflunisal. Diflunisal coadministration (500 mg b.i.d.) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of triamterene itself. However, plasma AUC of p-hydroxytriamterene sulphate was greater (4.6 times), and its renal clearance lower (0.24 times), in the presence of diflunisal. There was no change in the formation clearance or protein binding of p-hydroxytriamterene sulphate in the presence of diflunisal. The data point to competition for renal excretory pathways rather than sulphonation capacity. This interaction could have clinical relevance since p-hydroxytriamterene sulphate is pharmacologically active.
11118747	Blood concentrations of tetracaine and its metabolite following spinal anesthesia.	Blood concentrations of tetracaine and its metabolite, p-butylaminobenzoic acid, were measured after spinal anesthesia with tetracaine which had been administered to patients under going orthopedic surgery. Tetracaine, an ester anesthetic, was given to 10 patients, the dose was 8-14mg, and blood samples were collected 1, 2 and 6h after the injection of tetracaine. We used gas chromatography/mass spectrometry for purposes of analysis. Tetracaine was not detected in any blood sample, but the metabolite was detected in each sample with the mean concentrations of 126.5, 97.9 and 43.3ng/ml at 1, 2 and 6h, respectively. This data will be useful in determination of the cause of death after spinal anesthesia with tetracaine.
11128238	Population pharmacokinetics of clomipramine, desmethylclomipramine, and hydroxylated metabolites in patients with depression receiving chronic treatment: model evaluation.	Because metabolites play a major role in the clinical response to clomipramine, the objective of the current study was to develop a population model and evaluate its performance to describe the pharmacokinetic profiles of clomipramine (C) and its active metabolites desmethylclomipramine (DC), 8-hydroxy-clomipramine (OHC) and 8-hydroxy-desmethylclomipramine (OHDC). A first sample of 14 patients served for development of a 2-molecule C and DC model, which was shown to provide reasonable estimates of AUC-based clearances, as well as precise estimation of interindividual variability. Simulated data, generated to mimic a semi-rich sampling design and chronic treatment with clomipramine, indicated that clearance estimation was feasible under routine treatment conditions. A second sample of 30 patients, recruited prospectively and followed for a median 4-week period, was used to extend the 2-molecule model to a 4-molecule model. Goodness-of-fit assessment revealed that model-predicted concentrations were reasonably close to observed concentrations for a majority of patients. Interindividual variability was 50% to 60% for hydroxylation and desmethylation clearances, and residual variability was 30%. The proposed model incorporates much of what is known about the metabolism of clomipramine and may valuably integrate the influence of genetic and environmental factors on each metabolic pathway.
14738594	Study of inhibition of CYP2A6 by some drugs derived from quinoline.	CYP2A6 metabolizes coumarin to 7-hydroxycoumarin showing fluorescence, as measured by fluorometry. Firstly, we measured the inhibition of coumarin 7-hydroxylase of cDNA-expressed human CYP2A6 and in bovine liver microsomes, by quinoline and fluoroquinolines (FQ). Quinoline, 5-FQ, 6-FQ and 8-FQ inhibited activity but 3-FQ showed little inhibition. This suggests that the position 3 of quinoline is a recognition site for CYP2A6. We found similar patterns of coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity with human pooled liver microsomes. The level of CYP2A6 in human and bovine microsomes is the same as that detected by immunological titration with monoclonal antibody against CYP2A6. Secondly, we studied the inhibition of CYP2A6 with clinically used drugs of quinoline compounds, such as norfloxacin as an antibacterial agent, quinidine as an antiarrhythmic agent, quinine and chloroquine as antimalaria agents and rebamipide as an anti-ulcer agent. IC50 values (concentration producing 50% inhibition in activity) of norfloxacin, rebamipide and chloroquine at mM concentrations showed them to possess almost no inhibitory activity or influence on drug interaction. Meanwhile, the IC50 value of quinidine was 1.12 mM. The IC50 value of quinine was 160 microM with weak inhibition, suggesting that quinine, at a high dose, influences the metabolism of substrates for CYP2A6 by drug-drug interaction. These results also show that CYP2A6 discriminates the structure difference between the diastereoisomers quinidine and quinine.
12383485	Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry identification of metabolites of three phenylcarboxyl derivatives of the 5-HT(1A) antagonist, N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2-pyridyl) trans-4-fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide (FCWAY), produced by human and rat hepatocytes.	We have previously described fluorine-18 radiolabeled FCWAY [N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2-pyridyl) trans-4-fluorocyclohexanecarboxamide] as a high affinity ligand for imaging the 5-HT(1A) receptor in vivo. In a search for radiopharmaceuticals with unique imaging applications using positron emission tomography (PET), we have also developed three new phenylcarboxamide analogues of FCWAY. Two of these analogues were generated by replacing the fluorocyclohexane carboxylic acid with fluorobenzoic acid (FBWAY) or with 3-methyl-4-fluorobenzoic acid (MeFBWAY). The final analogue was generated by replacing the pyridyl group with a pyrimidyl group and the fluorocyclohexane carboxylate with fluorobenzoic acid (FPWAY). We evaluated the metabolic profile of these compounds using either human or rat hepatocytes to produce metabolites and LC-MS/MS to identify these metabolites. We also compared the metabolic rate of these compounds in human or rat hepatocytes. These in vitro metabolism studies indicate that hydrolysis of the amide linkage was the major metabolic pathway for FPWAY and FBWAY in human hepatocytes, whereas aromatic oxidation is the major metabolic pathway for MeFBWAY. The comparative metabolic rate in human hepatocytes was FPWAY>FBWAY>MeFBWAY. In rat hepatocytes, aromatic oxidation was the major metabolic pathway for all three analogs and the rate of this process was similar for all of the analogues. These in vitro metabolic studies demonstrated species differences prior to the acquisition and interpretation of in vivo results.
11765029	Analysis of the lidocaine metabolite 2,6-dimethylaniline in bovine and human milk.	2,6-Dimethylaniline (2,6-xylidine; 2,6-DMA) is a nasal carcinogen in rats. Humans may be exposed to this compound via several routes: 2,6-DMA is found in cigarette smoke; it is a pharmacologically inactive metabolite of some drugs (e.g., the local anesthetic lidocaine) and pesticides (e.g., metalaxyl); and it is an impurity in technical grade metalaxyl. The potential transfer of 2,6-DMA from mother to nursing infant via milk is of toxicological concern. Solid-phase microextraction with separation and detection using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was optimized and used for the analysis of 2,6-DMA in milk. 2,6-DMA-d9 was synthesized and used for quantitation by the isotope ratio method. At a concentration of 5 ppb 2,6-DMA, the method detection limit was 0.20 ppb, and the relative standard deviation was 3.6%. Samples of milk were obtained from bovines administered lidocaine (2.9-3.9 mg/kg) during surgery. A breast milk sample was also obtained from a human donor who received 36 mg lidocaine during dental work. 2,6-DMA was present at levels ranging from 14.5 to 66.0 ppb in bovine milk and was detected at 1.6 ppb in the human milk sample. Our results demonstrate that 2,6-DMA, formed by the metabolism of lidocaine, is transferable to bovine and human milk.
11325575	Metabolism of two new antiepileptic drugs and their principal metabolites S(+)- and R(-)-10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxy carbamazepine.	BIA 2-093 and BIA 2-059 are two stereoisomers under development as new antiepileptic drugs. They act as prodrugs for the corresponding hydroxy derivatives (S(+)- or R(-)-10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxy carbamazepine, respectively) which are known to be the active metabolites of the antiepileptic drug oxcarbazepine (OXC). The purpose of this study was to define the metabolic pathway especially in terms of stereoselectivity, and to estimate the possibility of racemization in humans. For in vivo studies, the rat, mouse and rabbit were chosen as models in order to cover a broad spectrum of metabolic activity. In addition, incubations with liver microsomes from these three species plus dog and monkey were compared to results obtained with human liver microsomes. It was found that both drugs were almost instantly hydrolysed to the corresponding 10-hydroxy compounds in mice, rats and rabbits. Mice and rabbits were not able to oxidize the 10-hydroxy compounds to OXC in significant amounts. In the rat, BIA 2-093 also gave origin to OXC, whereas BIA 2-059 resulted in the formation of OXC and the trans-diol metabolite in equal amounts. It could be shown that the rat is able to reduce the formed OXC in liver to S(+)-10-hydroxy metabolite, resulting in a loss of enantiomeric purity after treatment with BIA 2-059 rather than in the case of BIA 2-093. Human liver microsomes hydrolysed BIA 2-093 and BIA 2-059 to their corresponding 10-hydroxy compounds and to OXC in a very small extent with BIA 2-093 only. Therefore, BIA 2-093 and BIA 2-059 seem to be preferable drugs over OXC since they most likely exhibit a 'cleaner' metabolism. From a therapeutic point of view BIA 2-059 would be less appropriate than BIA 2-093 for the purpose of treating epileptic patients due to its propensity to undergo inactivation to the trans-diol.
12606777	Increased antiviral activity of 1-O-hexadecyloxypropyl-[2-(14)C]cidofovir in MRC-5 human lung fibroblasts is explained by unique cellular uptake and metabolism.	Recently, there has been renewed interest in finding orally active drugs against smallpox. Cidofovir (CDV) given by parenteral injection has been shown to protect against lethal poxvirus infection. We have been interested in the synthesis and evaluation of orally active derivatives of CDV. Previous studies showed that the CDV and cyclic cidofovir (cCDV) analogs 1-O-hexa-decyloxypropyl-CDV (HDP-CDV) and 1-O-hexadecyloxypropyl-cCDV (HDP-cCDV), show >100-fold increases in antiviral activity versus the unmodified nucleosides against cells infected with orthopoxviruses, cowpox, and vaccinia virus. In contrast to CDV, HDP-CDV is orally bioavailable and has been reported to be orally active in lethal cowpox virus infection in mice. To assess the metabolic basis for the increased antiviral activity of HDP-CDV in vitro, we studied the cellular uptake and anabolic metabolism of (14)C-labeled CDV, cCDV, and their alkoxyalkanol esters HDP-CDV and HDP-cCDV. HDP-CDV and HDP-cCDV were taken up rapidly by MRC-5 human lung fibroblasts in vitro, but uptake of CDV and cCDV was much slower. Analysis of cellular metabolites showed that levels of cidofovir diphosphate (CDV-DP), the active antiviral compound, were >100 times greater with HDP-CDV than levels observed with CDV. When cells were exposed to HDP-CDV, the intracellular half-life of CDV-DP was 10 days versus 2.7 days reported when cells are exposed to CDV. HDP-CDV seems to circumvent poor cellular uptake by rapid association with cellular membrane phospholipids, whereas CDV uptake proceeds via the slow process of fluid endocytosis.
11238192	Metabolism of the beta-oxidized intermediates of N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine: N-nitroso-beta-hydroxypropylpropylamine and N-nitroso-beta-oxopropylpropylamine.	The rat liver carcinogen N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine (NDPA) is metabolized to a propylating and methylating species in vivo. Metabolism to a methylating species is believed to require an initial hydroxylation by cytochrome P450s (P450s) to N-nitroso-beta-hydroxypropylpropylamine (NHPPA), which is oxidized to N-nitroso-beta-oxopropylpropylamine (NOPPA), followed by a P450-mediated depropylation to beta-oxopropyldiazotate, which non-enzymatically breaks down to the methylating agent. Purified rat liver P450 2B1 and rabbit liver 2E1 in the reconstituted system and liver microsomes from phenobarbital (PB) and pyridine (Pyr) treated rats readily metabolized NOPPA to a methylating species as determined by the in vitro formation of 7-methylguanine (m7Gua) in DNA. Exposure of cells derived from the human liver epithelium transfected with human 2E1 (T5-2E1) to NOPPA resulted in the formation of m7Gua DNA adducts and a dose dependent toxicity. In vitro incubation of NHPPA with microsomes from PB, Pyr and non-treated (NT) rats and a human microsomal sample also resulted in m7Gua formation. P450s 2B1 and 2E1 oxidized NHPPA to NOPPA, forming 16.5 +/- 3.1 and 20.0 +/- 4.4 pmol NOPPA/pmol P450 in 1 h, respectively. Rat liver cytosol, in the presence of NAD+, oxidized NHPPA to NOPPA at a rate of 13.7 +/- 3.0 pmol/min/mg protein while microsomes from NT rats catalyzed this reaction at 95.6 +/- 16.5 pmol/min/mg protein. Cells derived from hamster lung tissue (V79 control) and T5-neo cells oxidized NHPPA to NOPPA. This oxidation was about 15 fold higher in T5-2E1 or V79 cells transfected with human 2E1 or rat 2B1, respectively. The results are consistent with the putative sequential oxidation pathway and suggest that, at the concentrations tested, oxidation of NHPPA to NOPPA may be predominantly mediated by cytochrome P450s. In addition, it appears that rabbit, rat and human P450 2E1 can catalyze both oxidations.
11765026	Evaluating the impact of hemp food consumption on workplace drug tests.	Foods containing seeds or oil of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa L.) are increasingly found in retail stores in the U.S. The presence of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in these foods has raised concern over their impact on the results of workplace drug tests for marijuana. Previous studies have shown that eating hemp foods can cause screening and confirmed positive results in urine specimens. This study evaluated the impact of extended daily ingestion of THC via hemp oil on urine levels of its metabolite 11-nor-9-carboxy-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH) for four distinct daily THC doses. Doses were representative of THC levels now commonly found in hemp seed products and a range of conceivable daily consumption rates. Fifteen THC-nave adults ingested, over four successive 10-day periods, single daily THC doses ranging from 0.09 to 0.6 mg. Subjects self-administered THC in 15-mL aliquots (20 mL for the 0.6-mg dose) of four different blends of hemp and canola oils. Urine specimens were collected prior to the first ingestion of oil, on days 9 and 10 of each of the four study periods, and 1 and 3 days after the last ingestion. All specimens were screened for cannabinoids by radioimmunoassay (Immunalysis Direct RIA Kit), confirmed for THC-COOH by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and analyzed for creatinine to identify dilute specimens. None of the subjects who ingested daily doses of 0.45 mg of THC screened positive at the 50-ng/mL cutoff. At a daily THC dose of 0.6 mg, one specimen screened positive. The highest THC-COOH level found by GC-MS in any of the specimens was 5.2 ng/mL, well below the 15-ng/mL confirmation cutoff used in federal drug testing programs. A THC intake of 0.6 mg/day is equivalent to the consumption of approximately 125 mL of hemp oil containing 5 microg/g of THC or 300 g of hulled seeds at 2 microg/g. These THC concentrations are now typical in Canadian hemp seed products. Based on our findings, these concentrations appear to be sufficiently low to prevent confirmed positives from the extended and extensive consumption of hemp foods.
12018998	Comparative metabolism of N-tert-butyl-N-[1-(1-oxy-pyridin-4-yl)-ethyl]- and N-tert-butyl-N-(1-phenyl-ethyl)-nitroxide by the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase system.	The use of spin-trapping agents for a direct ESR detection of *OH in biological systems is limited by the low stability of the hydroxyl radical-derived nitroxides. Among the various probes used for trapping of *OH, DMSO has proven to be highly efficient. The reaction between *OH and DMSO yields methyl radical (CH(3)*), which can react with N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN) and alpha-(4-pyridyl-1-oxide)-N-tert-butylnitrone (POBN) to form stable, ESR-detectable nitroxides. The latter approach has been successfully used in in vivo experiments for analysis of *OH; in these experiments, POBN/*CH(3) and PBN/*CH(3) were detected in the bile duct and the urine of the treated animals. However, the sites of generation of *OH produced in vivo are unknown. Currently, no ESR data is available for the formation of *OH in liver of animals subjected to oxidative stress. Since nitroxides containing aromatic rings are likely to be substrates of cytochrome P450, experiments were carried out for assessing the ability of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase system to metabolize PBN/*CH(3) and POBN/*CH(3), respectively. In the presence of NADPH, rat liver microsomes catalyzed the reduction of POBN/*CH(3) to the corresponding hydroxylamine (POBN/CH(3)), while PBN/*CH(3) was metabolized without accumulation of its hydroxylamine form (PBN/CH(3)). The metabolism of PBN/.CH(3) was inhibited by 4-methylpyrazole and ketoconasole, suggesting that cytochrome P450-catalysis was required for the consumption of this nitroxide. Under anaerobic conditions, both the nitroxide and hydroxylamine forms of PBN/CH(3) were metabolized, implying that these adducts may undergo reductive cytochrome P450-catalyzed biotransformation. On the basis of the susceptibility of PBN/*CH(3) to undergo irreversible metabolic transformation, it is discussed that POBN may prove to be a more efficient spin-trapping agent for the in vivo detection of *OH.
14499337	Metabolite analysis of [11C]Ro15-4513 in mice, rats, monkeys and humans.	We performed in vitro and in vivo assays of the metabolism of [(11)C]Ro15-4513 over time in the plasma of mice, rats, monkeys and humans, using a radio-HPLC equipped with a sensitive positron detector, in order to compare the metabolic rates of the radiopharmaceutical agent among the different animal species and to establish a highly sensitive analytical method for the radiotracer agent. We also examined the metabolism of [(11)C]Ro15-4513 in the brain tissue of mice and rats. The analytical method used in this study permitted detection of even extremely low levels of radioactivity (approximately 5,000 dpm). In vitro experiments revealed that [(11)C]Ro15-4513 in the blood was metabolized to hydrolysate [(11)C]A. The species were classified in descending order of the metabolic rate of the radiotracer in vitro as follows; mice, rats, and monkeys/humans. In the in vitro experiment, the percentage of the unchanged drug in the plasma at 60 minutes postdose was 9% in mice, 70% in rats, 97% in monkeys, and 98% in humans. In vivo metabolite analysis in the blood showed the presence of two radioactive metabolites, consisting of one hydrolysate [(11)C]A and another unidentified substance. The species were classified in descending order of the metabolic rate of the radiotracer in vivo as follows; mice, rats/humans, and monkeys. The percentage of the unchanged drug in the plasma was 6% in mice, 21% in rats, 26% in humans, and 40% in monkeys. Furthermore, the in vitro and in vivo experiments conducted to analyze the metabolism of [(11)C]Ro15-4513 in the brain tissue of mice and rats revealed that the radiotracer was metabolized to some extent in the brain tissue of these animals. In the in vivo experiment, the percentage of the unchanged drug at 60 min postdose was 86% in the brain tissue of mice and 88% in the brain tissue of rats, while in the in vitro experiment, the corresponding percentage was 93% in mice, and 91% in rats.
11750100	Anagrelide metabolite induces thrombocytopenia in mice by inhibiting megakaryocyte maturation without inducing platelet aggregation.	The mechanism for anagrelide's potent platelet lowering activity in human subjects is not well defined. Studies related to anagrelide function have been hampered by its lack of activity in nonhuman primates and water insolubility. In an effort to define the mechanism whereby anagrelide exerts its therapeutic effect, we identified a water-soluble metabolite (anagrelide.met). The availability of anagrelide.met allowed, for the first time, parallel in vitro and in vivo animal studies centered on the mechanisms by which anagrelide lowers platelet levels. The effects of anagrelide.met on proliferation and maturation of mega-karyocytes (MKs) as well as platelet production were studied both in vitro and in vivo. Anagrelide.met is capable of blocking in vitro MK migration by 20% to 40%. At 100 ng/mL, anagrelide.met selectively blocked in vitro MK maturation, resulting in a 50% decrease in the total number of CD41a(+) MKs, corresponding with a 30% decrease in MK ploidy by day 10 and a 60% decrease by day 20. Daily intraperitoneal injections of anagrelide.met 100 microg into BALB/c mice was sufficient to significantly decrease platelet counts within 24 to 48 hours, stabilizing to 40 to 50% of normal levels by day 5. This was associated with a 45% decrease in the number of developing MKs and an increase in thrombopoietin levels. Anagrelide.met did not alter WBC counts, hematocrit, or bleeding time, or lead to any apparent signs of toxicity. Furthermore, unlike the parent anagrelide compound, anagrelide.met did not inhibit ADP-induced platelet aggregation even at high concentrations (10 microg/mL). We describe a cross-species reactive anagrelide metabolite that selectively inhibits MK maturation and migration, lowering platelet levels without influencing platelet aggregation.
12054360	An online automatic sample cleanup system for the quantitative detection of the benzene exposure biomarker S-phenylmercapturic acid in human urine by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	An online automatic sample cleanup system was developed for use with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS-MS) for the quantitative detection of the benzene exposure biomarker S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) in human urine. The sample clean-up system was constructed with an autosampling device, a reversed-phase C18 trap cartridge, a two-position switching valve, and controlling computer software and hardware. The sample cleanup system was interfaced directly with the ESI source of a triple-stage-quadrupole MS using multiple reaction monitoring of negative product ions derived from S-PMA and the internal standard as the detection mode. The calibration curve was linear using human urine spiked at concentrations from 0.23 to 100 mg/L S-PMA (R2 = 0.997). The detection limit of the analytical system for neat S-PMA standard solution was 0.04 microg/L, whereas the detection limit was estimated to be lower than 0.35 microg/L for a urine matrix containing trace amounts of S-PMA. Without tedious manual sample cleanup procedures, the analytical system is fully automatic and therefore useful for high-throughput urinary S-PMA determination. With the selectivity and the sensitivity provided by MS-MS detection, the analytical system can be used for high-throughput and accurate determination of S-PMA levels in human urinary samples as a biomarker for benzene exposure.
14570767	Mechanism-based inhibition of human liver microsomal cytochrome P450 1A2 by zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor.	Zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, was evaluated as an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 activity in human liver microsomes. In the absence of preincubation, the racemate was found to be a weak inhibitor (IC50 > 100 microM) of phenacetin O-deethylation (POD) (CYP1A2), paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylation (CYP2C8), diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation (CYP2C9), (S)-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation (CYP2C19), bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation (CYP2D6), testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (CYP3A4), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation (CYP2E1), and bupropion hydroxylation (CYP2B6). When preincubated with NADPH-fortified human liver microsomes in the absence of substrate, zileuton (racemate) was shown to inhibit POD. The effect was NADPH-, time-, and concentration-dependent, and was characterized by a kinact (maximal rate of enzyme inactivation) and apparent KI(inhibitor concentration that supports half the maximal rate of inactivation) of 0.035 min(-1) and 117 microM, respectively (kinact/KIratio of 0.0003 min-1 microM(-1)). Preincubation-dependent inhibition of POD activity was also observed with the individual (S)-(-)- and (R)-(+)-enantiomers of zileuton [(S)-(-)-zileuton; kinact, 0.037 min(-1), KI, 98.2 microM, kinact/KIratio, 0.0004 min(-1) microM(-1); (R)-(+)-zileuton; kinact, 0.012 min(-1), KI, 66.6 microM, kinact/KIratio, 0.0002 min(-1) microM(-1)]. In addition, the inhibition of CYP1A2 was not reversed in the presence of reduced glutathione, catalase, and superoxide dismutase and was refractory to dialysis. Therefore, zileuton was characterized as a mechanism-based inhibitor of human liver microsomal CYP1A2. Mechanism-based inhibition of CYP1A2 may explain why zileuton decreases the oral clearance of antipyrine, propranolol, (R)-warfarin, and theophylline, at doses that have a minimal effect on the pharmacokinetics of (S)-warfarin, phenytoin, and terfenadine.
11802099	Validation of a therapeutic drug monitoring strategy for thiotepa in a high-dose chemotherapy regimen.	Thiotepa is an alkylating agent widely used in high-dose chemotherapy. The pharmacokinetics of thiotepa and its main metabolite tepa show a wide interpatient variability, which may be responsible for the interpatient variability in toxicity. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a pharmacokinetically guided dosing strategy with the sum of the thiotepa and tepa area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) as the target parameter. A total of 46 patients received 77 courses of chemotherapy with thiotepa (80-120 mg/m(2) per day) divided into two daily 30-minute infusions in combination with cyclophosphamide and carboplatin. Patients received up to three courses of chemotherapy. The interpatient, course-to-course, day-to-day, and residual variability in the pharmacokinetics of thiotepa and tepa were estimated with a population analysis with the software program NONMEM. The planned strategy consisted of the collection of blood samples on day 1 and either day 3 or day 4 of each 4-day course. The thiotepa dose was planned to be adjusted on day 3 of each course and before the start of a new course on the basis of Bayesian predictions of the pharmacokinetics with data of day 1 and/or the possible previous course. The prediction procedure was validated by dividing the dataset into an index and validation set. The Bayesian predictions of the validation set were compared with true AUC values generated with individual fits of each course. The performance of the complete strategy was tested with a simulation procedure in 1,000 patients. Interpatient variability and course-to-course variability were in the same order (+/-20%); day-to-day variability was less (+/-15%). The sampling strategy resulted in predictions of the AUC without bias with acceptable precision (+/-20%). The simulation showed that variability in exposure was effectively decreased by the dosing strategy. This strategy resulted in a reduction in the variability of the exposure to thiotepa and tepa and can be implemented in a clinical study.
12493578	A new series of 13 buprenorphine-related deaths.	Buprenorphine at high dosage became available in France in 1996, as a substitution treatment for heroin addicts. Since this date, numerous deaths were attributed to this drug. This paper reports a new series of 13 fatalities involving buprenorphine observed at the Institute of Legal Medicine of Strasbourg, between August 2000 to October 2001. During the mentioned period, about 800 forensic cases were screened at the laboratory. Buprenorphine and its primary metabolite norbuprenophine were assayed in postmortem specimens by HPLC/MS. From these 13 subjects, 11 were male. Blood levels ranged from 0.3 to 7.7 ng/mL (mean 3.5 ng/mL) and 0.3 to 16.2 ng/mL (mean 2.9 ng/mL) for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, respectively. The mean values appear to be within the therapeutic range. IV injection of crushed tablets, a concomitant intake of psychotropics (especially benzodiazepines and neuroleptics) and the high dosage of the buprenorphine formulation available in France appear as the major risk factors for such fatalities.
12765874	Biological monitoring of low level occupational xylene exposure and the role of recent exposure.	The correlation between low level time-weighted average (TWA) atmospheric xylene exposure (p.p.m.) and urinary methylhippuric acid (MHA) expressed per gram of creatinine was examined. Subjects were recruited from workplaces that utilized xylene. Ambient monitoring of o-, m- and p-xylene isomers was carried out using passive diffusion vapour monitors. Adjusted (post-shift minus pre-shift) and post-shift urinary levels of xylene metabolites (2-, 3- and 4-MHA) were determined by GC-MS. Twenty subjects were recruited into the study. Total xylene TWA exposures were 3.36 +/- 3.63 p.p.m. (mean +/- SD) with a range of 0.03-14.44 p.p.m. The r(2) values for the regression equations between xylene exposure and individual and total adjusted MHA isomers were 0.390, 0.709, 0.677 and 0.631 for o-, m-, p- and total xylenes, respectively, which was greater than the respective correlations between non-adjusted samples. In conclusion, biological monitoring of occupational xylene exposure at levels <15 p.p.m. using urinary MHA showed a good correlation with atmospheric levels and is a valid complement to ambient monitoring. Even though occupational xylene exposure in the workplaces studied was generally low, MHA was found in the pre-shift urine of all workers and the use of adjusted values showed modest improvements in correlations. Recent exposure prior to sampling, either from occupational or non-occupational sources, should be considered when biological monitoring of xylene is undertaken. Extrapolation of data from this study predicted a MHA concentration in post-shift urine of 1.3 g/g creatinine after exposure to a TWA of 100 p.p.m. xylene.
12185557	Phenotypic polymorphism of CYP2A6 activity in a Chinese population.	To investigate the distribution characteristics of CYP2A6 activity in a Chinese population and to examine the sex-related differences in CYP2A6 activities. One hundred and twenty healthy volunteers, 63 men and 57 women, were included in the study. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2A6 activity was measured using the ratio of urinary 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-OHC) excreted in 8 h after a coumarin dose. The concentrations of 7-OHC in urine were determined using high performance liquid chromatography. A 300-fold interindividual variation of CYP2A6 activity was shown in the studied Chinese population. The coefficient of variation of CYP2A6 activity was 27.2%. A Kolmogorov-Smirnov test indicated a non-normal distribution of CYP2A6 activity ( P<0.001). Probit plots of CYP2A6 activity revealed a bimodal distribution with breakpoint of activity index near 0.47. The percentage of poor metabolizers (PMs) was 13.3% (95% confidence interval 7.3%-19.4%) in this population. Residual analysis also supported bimodality ( P<0.01). The CYP2A6 activities of females were obviously higher than those of males when the activity index was less than 0.74, although no statistically significant difference in the activity index of CYP2A6 between males and females was found. However, there was no sex-related difference in the incidence of PMs ( P>0.5). There are pronounced interindividual variations and phenotypic polymorphism of CYP2A6 activities in the Chinese population.
14667942	Evidence that unsaturated fatty acids are potent inhibitors of renal UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT): kinetic studies using human kidney cortical microsomes and recombinant UGT1A9 and UGT2B7.	Renal ischaemia is associated with accumulation of fatty acids (FA) and mobilisation of arachidonic acid (AA). Given the capacity of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms to metabolise both drugs and FA, we hypothesised that FA would inhibit renal drug glucuronidation. The effect of FA (C2:0-C20:5) on 4-methylumbelliferone (4-MU) glucuronidation was investigated using human kidney cortical microsomes (HKCM) and recombinant UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 as the enzyme sources. 4-MU glucuronidation exhibited Michaelis-Menten kinetics with HKCM (apparent K(m) (K(m)(app)) 20.3 microM), weak substrate inhibition with UGT1A9 (K(m)(app) 10.2 microM, K(si) 289.6 microM), and sigmoid kinetics with UGT2B7 (S(50)(app)440.6 microM) Similarly, biphasic UDP-glucuronic acid (UDPGA) kinetics were observed with HKCM (S(50) 354.3 microM) and UGT1A9 (S(50) 88.2 microM). In contrast, the Michaelis-Menten kinetics for UDPGA observed with UGT2B7 (K(m)(app) 493.2 microM) suggested that kinetic interactions with UGTs were specific to the xenobiotic substrate and the co-substrate (UDPGA). FA (C16:1-C20:5) significantly inhibited (25-93%) HKCM, UGT1A9 or UGT2B7 catalysed 4-MU glucuronidation. Although linoleic acid (LA) and AA were both competitive inhibitors of 4-MU glucuronidation by HKCM (K(i)(app) 6.34 and 0.15 microM, respectively), only LA was a competitive inhibitor of UGT1A9 (K(i)(app) 4.06 microM). In contrast, inhibition of UGT1A9 by AA exhibited atypical kinetics. These data indicate that LA and AA are potent inhibitors of 4-MU glucuronidation catalysed by human kidney UGTs and recombinant UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. It is conceivable therefore that during periods of renal ischaemia FA may impair renal drug glucuronidation thus compromising the protective capacity of the kidney against drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
14608613	Determination of ketotifen and its conjugated metabolite in human plasma by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry: application to a pharmacokinetic study.	A sensitive and specific liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method was developed for the investigation of the pharmacokinetics of ketotifen and its major metabolite, ketotifen N-glucuronide, in human plasma. The plasma samples were treated by liquid-liquid extraction and analyzed using LC/MS/MS with an electrospray ionization interface. Diphenhydramine was used as the internal standard. The method had a lower limit of quantitation of 10 pg/mL for ketotifen, which offered increased sensitivity, selectivity and speed of analysis, compared with existing methods. The intra- and inter-day precision were measured to be below 8.2% and accuracy between -2.4% and 3.4% for all QC samples. Incubation of the plasma samples with beta-glucuronidase allowed the quantitation of ketotifen N-glucuronide. This quantitation method was successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study of ketotifen and its major metabolite after oral administration of 2 mg ketotifen fumarate to 16 healthy volunteers.
14681342	Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the ETA-selective endothelin receptor antagonist SPP301 in healthy human subjects.	SPP301 is a competitive antagonist of ET-1 with a high selectivity for the ETA receptor. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study was performed to investigate the tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of SPP301 after single oral doses in male healthy subjects; doses of 5, 20, 50, 100, and 200 mg were given to different groups of 4 or 8 subjects each. The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of SPP301 was assessed for the 50-mg dose according to a sequential design in the same subjects. At regular intervals, blood pressure and pulse rate, plasma levels of ET-1 and of SPP301 and its hydroxymethyl metabolite, and urinary excretion of the parent drug and its metabolite were determined. SPP301 was generally well tolerated. At doses >20 mg, adverse events that are typical for vasodilating agents-namely, headache, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, and postural hypotension-were observed. Maximum plasma levels of SPP301 were reached within 4.5 hours. Cmax and AUC values increased linearly with doses up to 100 mg. The apparent terminal half-life was quite constant over the whole dose range and ranged from 7.5 to 15.2 hours. Urinary excretion of SPP301 was below 0.1% of any dose. Cmax and AUC of the metabolite amounted only to about 5% of the values for SPP301. Concomitant food intake had no effect on the overall exposure but increased average peak plasma concentrations of SPP301 by around 50%. Plasma ET-1 increased nearly twofold at the 5-mg SPP301 dose, with no further relevant increase at higher doses. In conclusion, SPP301 is an active ET-1 antagonist and is well tolerated. The pharmacokinetics of the drug and its metabolite are linear up to 100 mg. Food does not affect overall exposure of SPP301 but increases Cmax. Urinary excretion of SPP301 is below 0.1% of the dose administered.
12920163	Inhibitory effect of glyburide on human cytochrome p450 isoforms in human liver microsomes.	The inhibitory effect of glyburide [International Nonproprietary Name (INN), glibenclamide] on CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 activities was evaluated using pooled human liver microsomes. Glyburide strongly inhibited CYP2C9-catalyzed S-warfarin and phenytoin metabolism in a competitive manner, with Ki (IC50) values of 2.4 (11.3) microM and 3.1 (9.4) microM, respectively. CYP3A4-catalyzed midazolam 1-hydroxylation was inhibited by glyburide with a Ki (IC50) value of 42.5 (90.0) microM. However, glyburide showed no appreciable inhibitory effect on CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, or CYP2D6. In summary, glyburide showed potent inhibition on CYP2C9 and weak inhibition on CYP3A4, whereas it had minimal or no inhibitory effect on the other cytochromes p450 examined. It is anticipated that clinically significant drug-drug interactions will ensue when glyburide is coadministered with agents that are cleared primarily by the CYP2C9-mediated pathway and those with narrow therapeutic ranges.
11835190	Stereoselective disposition of talinolol in man.	The disposition of the beta-blocking drug talinolol is controlled by P-glycoprotein in man. Because talinolol is marketed as a racemate, we reevaluated the serum-concentration time profiles of talinolol of a previously published study with single intravenous (30 mg) and repeated oral talinolol (100 mg for 14 days) before and after comedication of rifampicin (600 mg per day for 9 days) in eight male healthy volunteers (age 22-26 years, body weight 67-84 kg) with respect to differences in the kinetic profiles of the two enantiomers S(-) talinolol and R(+) talinolol. Additionally, the metabolism of talinolol in human liver microsomes was examined. After oral administration, S(-) talinolol was slightly less absorbed and faster eliminated than R(+) talinolol. The absolute bioavailabilty of the R(+) enantiomer of talinolol was slightly but significantly higher than of its S(-) enantiomer. Coadministration of rifampicin further intensified this difference in the disposition of R(+) and S(-) talinolol (p < 0.05). Formation of 4-trans hydroxytalinolol was the major metabolic pathway in human liver microsomes. All Cl(int) values of S(-) were higher than of R(+) talinolol; 0.1 microM ketoconazole inhibited the formation of all metabolites. In conclusion, the stereoselectivity of talinolol disposition is of minor importance, and most likely caused by presystemic biotransformation via CYP3A4. The less active R(+) talinolol might be suitable for phenotyping P-glycoprotein expression in man.
11167666	Population pharmacokinetics of thioTEPA and its active metabolite TEPA in patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy.	To study the population pharmacokinetics of thioTEPA and its main metabolite TEPA in patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy consisting of thioTEPA (80-120 mg x m(-2) x day(-1)), cyclophosphamide (1000-1500 mg x m(-2) x day(-1)) and carboplatin (265-400 mg x m(-2) x day(-1)) for 4 days. ThioTEPA and TEPA kinetic data were processed with a two-compartment model using the nonlinear mixed effect modelling program NONMEM. Interindividual variability (IIV), interoccasion variability (IOV) and residual variability in the pharmacokinetics were estimated. The influence of patient characteristics on the pharmacokinetics was also determined. A total number of 40 patients receiving 65 courses of chemotherapy was included. Clearance of thioTEPA (CL) was 34 l x h(-1) with an IIV and IOV of 18 and 11%, respectively. The volume of distribution of thioTEPA was 47 l (IIV = 7.5%; IOV = 19%). The fraction of thioTEPA converted to TEPA divided by the volume of distribution of TEPA was 0.030 l-1 (IIV = 39%; IOV = 32%) and the elimination rate constant of TEPA was 0.64 h(-1) (IIV = 27%; IOV = 32%). CL of thioTEPA was correlated with alkaline phosphatase and serum albumin. The volume of distribution of thioTEPA and the elimination rate constant of TEPA were correlated with total protein levels and body weight, respectively. A model for the description of the pharmacokinetics of thioTEPA and TEPA was developed. Factors involved in the interpatient variability of thioTEPA and TEPA pharmacokinetics were identified. Since, IOV of both thioTEPA and TEPA was equal to or smaller than IIV, therapeutic drug monitoring based on data of previous courses may be meaningful using this population model.
12111109	Leucocyte versus erythrocyte thioguanine nucleotide concentrations in children taking thiopurines for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.	The aim of this study was to compare leucocyte and erythrocyte thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) cytotoxic metabolite concentrations in children with lymphoblastic leukaemia taking mercaptopurine (MP) or thioguanine (TG) as part of their long-term remission maintenance chemotherapy. Ten consecutive children treated on the MRC ALL97 protocol were studied. Six were randomized to TG and four to MP. Leucocyte and erythrocyte thiopurine nucleotide metabolites were measured after the children had been titrated to the standard thiopurine protocol dose, or higher. Children taking TG accumulated significantly higher erythrocyte TGN concentrations than those taking MP (median difference 1171 pmol/8 x 10(8) erythrocytes, 95% CI 766 to 2169, P<0.02), but there was no significant difference in the concentration range of leucocyte TGNs generated from TG or MP. In those children taking TG, median TGN concentrations were 5142 pmol/8 x 10(8) leucocytes and 1472 pmol/8 x 10(8) erythrocytes (3.5-fold difference, median difference 3390 pmol/8 x 10(8) cells, 95% CI 1559 to 7695, P=0.005), compared to 5422 pmol/8 x 10(8) leucocytes and 261 pmol/8 x 10(8) erythrocytes (20-fold difference, median difference 5054 pmol/8 x 10(8) cells, 95% CI 2281 to 6328, P=0.03) in those taking MP. Despite the accumulation of significantly higher erythrocyte TGN concentrations for TG compared with MP, the accumulation of leucocyte TGNs in children taking TG was similar to the range of leucocyte TGNs in children taking MP. Therefore, when correlating intracellular TGNs to clinical effect, the range of erythrocyte TGN metabolites will be higher for those children taking TG than in those taking MP.
11129502	Pharmacokinetics of chlorambucil in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: comparison of different days, cycles and doses.	The effects of repeated treatment cycles and different doses on intraindividual variation in oral bioavailability of chlorambucil and its first, active, and more toxic metabolite, phenylacetic acid mustard, were studied. Chlorambucil and phenylacetic acid mustard concentrations were measured with HPLC on Day 1 and on Day 4 in 15 timed blood samples from 11 chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients receiving chlorambucil therapy cycles. Bioavailability was evaluated also after the first chlorambucil doses of six consecutive treatment cycles repeated every 4 weeks with increasing chlorambucil doses starting with 0.8 mg/kg/4 days, and increased by 0.1 mg/kg/4 days cycle. Area under the concentration-time-curve (AUC) from t=0 to infinite was in average 3.2 hr* microg/ml for the first cycle, and decreased by 17% in four days (P<0.05). The mean distribution half-life of chlorambucil was 0.49 hr and the terminal elimination half-life 2.45 hr. The bioavailability of chlorambucil decreased further when 4-day treatment cycles were repeated. For the fifth cycle, dose-corrected AUC for the first 2 hr was 33% smaller than that for the first cycle (P for trend <0.01). Data suggest accelerated metabolism and elimination of chlorambucil and phenylacetic acid mustard, but reduced oral bioavailability of chlorambucil cannot be excluded. However, except for AUC, none of the pharmacokinetic parameters of chlorambucil changed significantly during the first 4-day treatment period. The maximal plasma concentration and AUC of phenylacetic acid mustard did not change significantly during repeated treatment cycles. According to this trial a dose adjustment of chlorambucil is not necessary during a short-term course, but may be necessary when treatment cycles are repeated. An average increase in the chlorambucil dose of 10% per cycle maintains similar plasma concentration of chlorambucil.
12913238	Synthesis and preliminary biological evaluation of a new pyridocarbazole derivative covalently linked to a thymidine nucleoside as a potential targeted antitumoral agent. I.	The therapy of human cancer is one of the more pursued goals by medicinal chemistry research. Most of the compounds clinically used as a treatment owe their efficacy to their cytotoxic interaction (direct or indirect) with nuclear DNA. This interaction results in the inhibition of DNA synthesis and the degradation of nucleic strands. Ellipticine is a naturally occurring 6H-pyrido[4,3-b]carbazole alkaloid endowed with antitumor activity, and several ellipticine derivatives have been used in clinical trials. We previously reported some 1,4-dimethyl-9H-carbazole derivatives structurally related to ellipticine. The purpose of our research was to transform the pyridocarbazole in a prodrug so that it would have more penetration in the tumor cells and block their replication. Our prodrug is slowly hydrolyzed in human plasma in the corresponding acid. From these preliminary results, we deduce that our compound can block cellular replication. Our hypothesis is that the antitumoral activity is probably related to the induction of damage to DNA, without cellular lysis in the short term.
11854151	Inhibition of cytochromes P450 by antifungal imidazole derivatives.	The interactions of a panel of antifungal agents with cytochromes P450 (P450s), as a means of predicting potential drug-drug interactions, have not yet been investigated. The objective of this study was to evaluate the specificity and selectivity of five antifungal agents using selective probe reactions for each of the eight major P450s. The index reactions used were phenacetin O-deethylation (for CYP1A2), coumarin 7-hydroxylation (CYP2A6), diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation (CYP2C9), omeprazole 5-hydroxylation (CYP2C19), dextromethorphan O-demethylation (CYP2D6), 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin deethylation (CYP2B6), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation (CYP2E1), and omeprazole sulfonation (CYP3A4). Five antifungal agents that include an imidazole moiety (clotrimazole, miconazole, sulconazole, tioconazole, and ketoconazole) were examined in cDNA-expressing microsomes from human lymphoblast cells or human liver microsomes. All inhibitors studied demonstrated nonselective inhibition of P450s. Ketoconazole seemed to be the most selective for CYP3A4, although it also inhibited CYP2C9. High-affinity inhibition was seen for CYP1A2 (sulconazole and tioconazole K(i), 0.4 microM), CYP2B6 (miconazole K(i), 0.05 microM; sulconazole K(i), 0.04 microM), CYP2C19 (miconazole K(i), 0.05 microM; sulconazole K(i), 0.008 microM; tioconazole K(i), 0.04 microM), CYP2C9 (sulconazole K(i), 0.01 microM), CYP2D6 (miconazole K(i), 0.70 microM; sulconazole K(i), 0.40 microM), CYP2E1 (tioconazole K(i), 0.4 microM), and CYP3A4 (clotrimazole K(i), 0.02 microM; miconazole K(i), 0.03 microM; tioconazole K(i), 0.02 microM). Therefore, this class of compounds is likely to result in significant drug-drug interactions in vivo.
11854155	The gastroprokinetic and antiemetic drug metoclopramide is a substrate and inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2D6.	Metoclopramide is increasingly prescribed for conditions previously treated with cisapride, but its metabolic enzymology and drug interactions are poorly understood. Using human liver microsomes (HLMs) and recombinant human cytochromes P450 (P450), we identified the major route of metoclopramide oxidation and the P450 isoforms involved. We also documented the ability of metoclopramide to inhibit the P450 system, using isoform-specific substrate reaction probes of CYP1A2, 2C19, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4. Metoclopramide was predominantly N-dealkylated to monodeethylmetoclopramide, a metabolite that has not so far been described in humans. Formation rate of this metabolite followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics (K(m), 68 +/- 16 microM; V(max), 183 +/- 57 pmol/min/mg of protein; n = 3 HLMs). Of the isoform-specific inhibitors tested, 1 microM quinidine was a potent inhibitor of metoclopramide (25 microM) monodeethylation [by an average of 58.2%; range, approximately 38% (HL09-14-99) to 78.7% (HL161)] with K(i) values highly variable among the HLMs tested (K(i), mean +/- S.D., 2.7 +/- 2.8 microM; range, 0.15 microM in HL66, 2.4 microM in HL09-14-99, and 5.7 microM in HLD). Except troleandomycin, which inhibited metoclopramide metabolism in only one HLM (by approximately 23% in HL09-14-99), the effect of other inhibitors was minimal. Among the recombinant human P450 isoforms examined, monodeethylmetoclopramide was formed at the highest rate by CYP2D6 (V = 4.5 +/- 0.3 pmol/min/pmol of P450) and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2 (0.97 +/- 0.15 pmol/min/pmol of P450). The K(m) value derived (approximately 53 microM) was close to that from HLMs (68 microM). Metoclopramide is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 at therapeutically relevant concentrations (K(i) = 4.7 +/- 1.3 microM), with negligible effect on other isoforms tested. Further inhibition of CYP2D6 was observed when metoclopramide was preincubated with HLMs and NADPH-generating system before the substrate probe was added (maximum rate of inactivation, K(inact) = 0.02 min(-1), and the concentration required to achieve the half-maximal rate of inactivation, K'(i) = 0.96 microM), suggesting mechanism-based inhibition. Metoclopramide elimination is likely to be slowed in poor metabolizers of CYP2D6 or in patients taking inhibitors of this isoform, whereas metoclopramide itself could reduce the clearance of CYP2D6 substrate drugs.
12149304	Clinical pharmacokinetics of irinotecan and its metabolites: a population analysis.	To build population pharmacokinetic (PK) models for irinotecan (CPT-11) and its currently identified metabolites. Seventy cancer patients (24 women and 46 men) received 90-minute intravenous infusions of CPT-11 in the dose range of 175 to 300 mg/m(2). The PK models were developed to describe plasma concentration profiles of the lactone and carboxylate forms of CPT-11 and 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) and the total forms of SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G), 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (APC), and 7-ethyl-10-[4-amino-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (NPC) by using NONMEM. The interconversion between the lactone and carboxylate forms of CPT-11 was relatively rapid, with an equilibration half-life of 14 minutes in the central compartment and hydrolysis occurring at a rate five times faster than lactonization. The same interconversion also occurred in peripheral compartments. CPT-11 lactone had extensive tissue distribution (steady-state volume of distribution [Vss], 445 L) compared with the carboxylate form (Vss, 78 L, excluding peripherally formed CPT-11 carboxylate). Clearance (CL) was higher for the lactone form (74.3 L/h) compared with the carboxylate form (12.3 L/h). During metabolite data modeling, goodness of fit indicated a preference of SN-38 and NPC to be formed out of the lactone form of CPT-11, whereas APC could be modeled best by presuming formation from CPT-11 carboxylate. The interconversion between SN-38 lactone and carboxylate was slower than that of CPT-11, with the lactone form dominating at equilibrium. The CLs for SN-38 lactone and carboxylate were similar, but the lactone form had more extensive tissue distribution. Plasma data of CPT-11 and metabolites could be adequately described by this compartmental model, which may be useful in predicting the time courses, including interindividual variability, of all characterized substances after intravenous administrations of CPT-11.
12698986	Chromatographic determination of free lidocaine and its active metabolites in plasma from patients under epidural anesthesia.	We developed a simple and selective assay method for simultaneous determination of free lidocaine (LDC) and its active metabolites, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and glycinexylidide (GX) in plasma, by using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The method was applied to the plasma concentration monitoring in continuous epidural anesthesia with LDC. Free fraction was separated from plasma by using an ultrafiltration technique. Free and total LDC, MEGX and GX in plasma were analyzed by HPLC equipped with ordinary octadecylsilyl silica (ODS) column and ultraviolet (UV) detector. Five male patients with cancer who received epidural injection of 1.5% LDC for 5 hours in elective thoracic surgery, were enrolled to determine the plasma levels of total and free LDC, MEGX and GX. The calibration curve for free LDC, MEGX and GX were linear at the concentration of 25 to 1,000 ng ml(-1) (r = 0.9998 - 0.9999). The recoveries for LDC, MEGX and GX from plasma water were ranged 73.2-89.1%. The coefficient variations for intra- and inter-day assay for LDC, MEGX and GX were less than 4.1%. The detection limit ofeach drug was 20 ng ml(-1). Plasma-free MEGX after 180 min epidural injection was higher than free LDC, even though the total concentration of MEGX was 4 times lower than that of LDC. The percentages of free fraction for LDC, MEGX and GX were 11.7, 48.5 and 78.3% after 5-hour epidural administration of LDC. Since the free fraction of MEGX and GX increases and exceeds the concentration of free LDC during continuous epidural anesthesia, accumulation of these toxic metabolites should be carefully monitored as well as LDC. The present method is a reliable technique and can be applied to monitoring free LDC, MEGX and GX, which provide us beneficial information as to the LDC metabolism and toxicity.
12699742	Synthesis, in vitro, and in vivo evaluation of phosphate ester derivatives of combretastatin A-4.	Combretastatin A-4 disodiumphosphate (CA4P), a prodrug formulation of the natural product combretastatin A-4 (CA4), is currently in clinical investigation for the treatment of cancer. In vivo, CA4P is rapidly enzymatically converted to CA4, a potent inhibitor of tubulin polymerization (IC(50)=1-2 microM), and rapidly causes bloodflow shutdown in tumor tissues. A variety of alkyl and aryl di- and triesters of CA4P have been synthesized and evaluated as potential CA4 prodrugs and/or stable CA4P analogues.
12112383	Identification of N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-azobiphenyl by (32)P-postlabeling analyses of DNA in human uroepithelial cells exposed to proximate metabolites of the environmental carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl.	DNA adducts formed in human uroepithelial cells (HUC) following exposure to N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-ABP), the proximate metabolite of the human bladder carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP), were analyzed by the (32)P-postlabeling method. Two adducts detected by (32)P-postlabeling were previously identified as the 3',5'-bisphospho derivatives of N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (dG-C8-ABP) and N-(deoxyadenosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (dA-C8-ABP) (Frederickson S et al. [1992] Carcinogenesis 13: 955-961; Hatcher and Swaminathan [1995b] Carcinogenesis 16: 295-301). In contrast to the dG-C8-ABP adduct, which was 3'-dephosphorylated by nuclease P1, dA-C8-ABP was resistant to nuclease P1, thus providing an enrichment step before postlabeling. Autoradiography of the two-dimensional thin-layer chromatogram of the postlabeled products obtained following nuclease P1 digestion revealed several minor adducts, one of which has been identified in the present study. Postlabeling analyses following nuclease P1 digestion of the products obtained from the reaction of N-acetoxy-4-aminobiphenyl with deoxyguanosine-3'-monophosphate (dGp) demonstrated the presence of this minor adduct. The 3'-monophosphate derivative of the adduct was subsequently chromatographically purified and subjected to spectroscopic analyses. Based on proton NMR and mass spectroscopic analyses of the synthetic product, the chemical structure of the adduct has been identified as N-(deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-4-azobiphenyl (dG-N==N-ABP). (32)P-Postlabeling analysis of the nuclease P1-enriched DNA hydrolysate of HUCs treated with N-OH-ABP or N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl (N-OH-AABP) showed the presence of the dG-N==N-ABP adduct. It was also detected in calf thymus DNA incubated with HUC cytosol and N-OH-ABP in the presence of acetyl-CoA, or incubated with HUC microsomes and N-OH-AABP. These results demonstrate that in the target cells for ABP carcinogenesis in vivo, N-OH-ABP and N-OH-AABP are bioactivated by acyltransferases to reactive arylnitrenium ions that covalently interact at the N2 position of deoxyguanosine in DNA.
12051572	Methylation of quercetin and fisetin, flavonoids widely distributed in edible vegetables, fruits and wine, by human liver.	The aim of this investigation was to study the methylation of quercetin and fisetin, 2 chemically related flavonoids, in human liver and to this purpose, an assay was set-up to measure the rates of quercetin and fisetin methylation in human liver. The methylation rates (pmol/min/mg) of quercetin and fisetin were measured in 10 liver samples and the mean +/- SD and the median were 170+/-30 and 177 (quercetin) and 183+/-15 and 178 (fisetin). The rates of quercetin and fisetin methylation were not different (p = 0.283). The fold of variation among samples was 2 (quercetin) and 1.3 (fisetin). Methyltransferase towards quercetin and fisetin followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, and the Km values were 2.6+/-0.3 (quercetin) and 8.6+/-0.7 microM (fisetin, p = 0.009) and the Vmax values were 187+/-20 (quercetin) and 276+/-33 pmol/min/mg (fisetin, p = 0.009). Two, 4 and 8 microl of red Chianti wine added to the incubation mixture reduced the rate of quercetin methylation to 75+/-4%, 65+/-9% and 59+/-9%, respectively, and that of fisetin methylation to 62+/-3%, 51+/-3% and 44+/-4%, respectively. In conclusion, quercetin and fisetin are methylated in human liver and their rates of methylation have a limited variation among subjects.
12659714	Lipid peroxidation and cell death mechanisms in rats and human cells induced by chloral hydrate.	Chloral hydrate (CH) is widely used as a sedative and hypnotic in pediatric medicine. It is also a by-product of water chlorination and a metabolite of trichloroethylene. We examined the toxicological effects and cell death mechanisms of CH in rats and human Chang liver cells and lymphocytes. Monitoring of urinary 8-epi-PGF2alpha and serum levels of TNF-alpha served as index of lipid peroxidation and cytokine stimulation. The results indicated that a single intraperitoneal injection of 100 mg/kg CH in rats led to a nearly five-fold increase in urinary 8-epi-PGF2alpha on day 1, and a mild decrease on day 2 and day 3. The same treatment also induced significantly higher amounts of serum TNF-alpha on day 2 (about seven-fold). When the rats were treated with CH and vitamin E simultaneously, the amount of urinary 8-epi-PGF2alpha and serum TNF- were significantly lower than that in the rats treated with CH alone. CH caused a greater cytotoxic effect in human Chang liver cells than in comparison with lymphocytes. After treatment with CH, apoptosis features were observed in human lymphocytes, but not Chang liver cells. CH-induced cell damage in lymphocytes may offer signals for the induction of caspases activation. Further studies are needed to evaluate the relationship between caspases activation and the cleavage of other death substrates during postmitotic apoptosis in human lymphocytes.
12401345	Monolithic silica rod liquid chromatography with ultraviolet or fluorescence detection for metabolite analysis of cytochrome P450 marker reactions.	In vitro cytochrome P450 assays are used in metabolism studies in support of early phases of drug discovery to investigate, e.g., metabolic stability, enzyme inhibition and induction by new chemical entities. LC-UV and LC-fluorescence are traditional analytical tools in support of such studies. However, these tools typically comprise different methods of relatively low throughput for the various metabolites of probe reactions. In recent years, LC-MS methods have been developed to increase throughput. Increased throughput can also be achieved by means of modern chromatographic tools in combination with UV and fluorescence detection. This approach is especially suitable when cytochrome P450 isoforms are investigated by means of single probe incubations. Here, an LC-UV/fluorescence system based on a monolithic porous silica column is described for the analysis of metabolites of nine cytochrome P450 marker reactions [phenacetin to paracetamol (CYP1A2), coumarin to 7-hydroxycoumarin (CYP2A6), paclitaxel to 6alpha-hydroxypaclitaxel (CYP2C8), diclofenac to 4-hydroxydiclofenac (CYP2C9), mephenytoin to 4-hydroxymephenytoin (CYP2C19), bufuralol to 1-hydroxybufuralol (CYP2D6), chlorzoxazone to 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone (CYP2E1), midazolam to 1-hydroxymidazolam (CYP3A4), and testosteron to 6beta-hydroxytestosteron (CYP3A4)]. While offering sensitivities and linear ranges comparable to previously reported methods, the set-up described here provides ease of use and increased throughput with maximum cycle times of 4.5 min.
11317702	Study on the cytochrome P-450- and glutathione-dependent biotransformation of trichloroethylene in humans.	To investigate in humans the contribution of the cytochrome P-450- and glutathione-dependent biotransformation of trichloroethylene (TRI) under controlled repeated exposure in volunteers, and under occupational conditions. Volunteers were exposed to TRI, using repeated 15 min exposures at 50 and 100 ppm. This exposure schedule resulted in internal doses of 1.30 and 2.40 mmol of TRI respectively. Urine samples were collected for a minimum of 45 h. Urine samples were also collected from occupationally exposed workers. The samples were analysed for the known human metabolites of TRI, trichloroethanol (TCE), trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and both regio-isomeric forms of the mercapturic acid N-acetyl-S-(dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCV-NAC), and for (dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC). In order to further elucidate the metabolism of TRI in humans, we analysed samples for dichloroacetic acid and for the proposed break-down products of 1,2 and 2,2-dichlorovinyl-L-cysteine after deamination: the S-conjugates of 3-mercaptolactic acid, 3-mercaptopyruvic acid and 2-mercaptoacetic acid. None of the glutathione metabolites was found in urine of volunteers. In workers occupationally exposed to TRI at levels between 0.4 and 21 ppm [8-h time-weighted average (TWA)], levels of DCV-NAC in urine samples collected at the end of the 4th working day and also next morning were below detection limit (0.04 mumol/l). This confirms the findings of Bernauer et al. (1996) that these metabolites are excreted at very low levels in humans. Urinary levels of DCVC and six postulated metabolites of dichlorovinyl-S-cysteine conjugates via deamination were also below 0.04 mumol/l, indicating that at most 0.05% of the dose is excreted in the form of these metabolites. These data further strengthen the argument for a very low activity of glutathione-mediated metabolism for chronically exposed workers. This study gives additional data which indicate that glutathione-mediated metabolism is of minor importance in humans exposed to TRI. In spite of indications to the contrary, significant metabolism of the cysteine conjugate via beta-lyase, which could result in a toxic metabolite, cannot be ruled out completely.
12441191	Conversion of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate at physiological plasma concentration into estrogens in MCF-7 cells.	Metabolism of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), its sulfate (DHEAS), and androstene-3,17-dione (delta(4)) was performed at their physiological plasma concentrations in MCF-7 cell cultures (1 microM, 10 and 2 nM, respectively). Final metabolic products of these steroids were separated by HPLC-radioactive flow detection and identified by LC/MS or MS/MS. Typical and specific mass fragmentation spectra identified the presence of estrone (E(1)), 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), delta(4), DHEA, 5-androstene-3beta,17beta-diol (delta(5)), and testosterone as principal DHEAS metabolites. Other steroids, such as androstenedione, androsterone, and DHEA fatty acid esters at very low concentrations (from pM to nM), were also obtained after steroid incubation. This highly specific method allowed us to conclude whether a metabolite and enzymatic activity of interest were present in MCF-7 cells or not. We also showed that DHEAS at its physiological plasma concentration may be converted into estrogens and estrogen-like compounds in breast cancer cells. The estrogenic action of DHEAS on breast cancer cells was also measured by bioluminescence in a stably transfected human breast cancer MCF-7 cell line with a reporter gene that allowed expression of the firefly luciferase enzyme under the control of an estrogen regulatory element.
12527341	Metabolism of quercetin-7- and quercetin-3-glucuronides by an in vitro hepatic model: the role of human beta-glucuronidase, sulfotransferase, catechol-O-methyltransferase and multi-resistant protein 2 (MRP2) in flavonoid metabolism.	Quercetin-3- and quercetin-7-glucuronides are major products of small intestine epithelial cell metabolism (J. Nutr. 130 (2000) 2765) but it is not known if quercetin glucuronides can be further processed in the liver or if they are excreted directly. Using the HepG2 hepatic cell model, we show that highly purified quercetin-7- and quercetin-3-glucuronides can follow two pathways of metabolism: (i) methylation of the catechol functional group of both quercetin glucuronides (44% of quercetin-7-glucuronide at a rate of 2.6 nmol/hr/10(6) cells, and 32% of quercetin-3-glucuronide at a rate of 1.9 nmol/hr/10(6) cells, over 48 hr) or (ii) hydrolysis of the glucuronide by endogenous beta-glucuronidase followed by sulfation to quercetin-3'-sulfate (7% of quercetin-7-glucuronide at a rate of 0.42 nmol/hr/10(6) cells and 10% of quercetin-3-glucuronide at a rate of 0.61 nmol/hr/10(6) cells, over 48 hr). In contrast, quercetin-4'-glucuronide was not metabolised, and interestingly this is not a major product of the small intestine absorption process. The conversion of the quercetin-7- and quercetin-3-glucuronide to the mono-sulfate conjugate shows intracellular deglucuronidation by beta-glucuronidase activity, allowing transient contact of the free aglycone with the cellular environment. Inhibition of methylation using a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor shifted metabolism towards sulfation, as indicated by an increase in quercetin-3'-sulfate formation (increase in rate to 1.13 and 1.43 nmol/hr/10(6) cells for quercetin-7-glucuronide and quercetin-3-glucuronide, respectively). Efflux of quercetin metabolites from HepG2 cells (methylated glucuronide and sulfate conjugates) was not altered by verapamil, a p-glycoprotein inhibitor, but efflux was competitively inhibited by MK-571, a multidrug resistant protein inhibitor, indicating a role for multidrug resistant protein in the efflux of quercetin conjugates from HepG2 cells. These results show that HepG2 cells can absorb and turnover quercetin glucuronides and that human endogenous beta-glucuronidase activity could modulate the intracellular biological activities of dietary antioxidant flavonoids.
12692889	Chiral aspects of metabolism of antiinflammatory drug flobufen in human hepatocytes.	The metabolism of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug flobufen, 4-(2',4'-difluorobiphenyl-4-yl)-2-methyl-4-oxobutanoic acid, was studied in primary cultures of human hepatocytes prepared by two-step collagenase perfusion of livers from four donors. Racemic flobufen or its individual enantiomers, R-(+)- and S-(-)-flobufen were used as substrates. Aliquots of culture medium were collected during 24-h incubation. The time-dependent disappearance of flobufen enantiomers and the formation of metabolites (stereoisomers of dihydroflobufen (DHF)) in hepatocytes were measured by chiral HPLC. The reduction of flobufen in human hepatocytes was stereoselective ((+)-R-flobufen was preferentially metabolized) and stereospecific ((2R;4S)-DHF and (2S;4S)-DHF stereoisomers were mostly formed). Although the structure of flobufen is different from the profens (2-arylpropionates), flobufen undergoes chiral inversion in human hepatocytes. The inversion of R-(+)-flobufen to S-(-)-flobufen predominates. The individual DHF stereoisomers were incubated in hepatocyte cultures and their biotransformation studied. The unidirectional chiral inversion of (2S;4S)-DHF to (2R;4S)-DHF and (2R;4R)-DHF to (2S;4R)-DHF was observed. Stereoselective oxidation of the DHFs to flobufen was also detected. Thus, flobufen metabolism in primary cultures of human hepatocytes is much more complicated (via chiral inversion and DHF re-oxidation) than was presumed from a preliminary achiral point of view.
12814970	Identification of CYP1A2 as the main isoform for the phase I hydroxylated metabolism of genistein and a prodrug converting enzyme of methylated isoflavones.	This study determined the cytochrome P450 (P450) isoforms responsible for metabolism of isoflavones using human liver microsomes (HLM) and expressed P450s. The primary metabolite of genistein is 3'-OH-genistein, as identified with an authentic chemically synthesized standard. CYP1A2 was predominantly responsible for 3'-OH-genistein formation since its formation was inhibited (>50%, p < 0.05) by a monoclonal antibody specific for CYP1A2, was correlated with CYP1A2 activities of HLM, and was catalyzed by expressed CYP1A2. In addition to CYP1A2, CYP2E1 also catalyzed, although to a lesser extent, its formation. The contribution of these P450s to the formation of 3'-OH-genistein was also confirmed with a panel of expressed enzymes. Methylated isoflavones biochanin A, prunetin, and formononetin (10-100 microM) were rapidly converted by HLM and expressed CYP1A2 to more active genistein and daidzein. The conversion of biochanin A to genistein appears to be mainly mediated by CYP1A2 because of the strong correlation between the conversion rates and CYP1A2 activities in HLM. Thus, CYP1A2 is an effective prodrug-converting enzyme for less active methylated isoflavones. CYP1A2-catalyzed conversion of biochanin A to genistein (Km, 7.80 microM; Vmax, 903 pmol/min/mg of protein; Vmax/Km, 116 microl/min/mg of protein) was much faster than 3'-hydroxylation of genistein (Km, 12.7 microM and Vmax, 109 pmol/min/mg of protein; Vmax/Km, 8.6 microl/min/mg of protein). The interaction studies showed that genistein inhibited formation of acetaminophen from phenacetin with an IC50 value of 16 microM. Additional studies showed that phenacetin and genistein were mutually inhibitory. In conclusion, CYP1A2 and CYP2E1 metabolized genistein and CYP1A2 acted as prodrug-converting enzymes for other less active methylated isoflavones.
12882448	Dexamethasone accelerates catabolism of leukotriene C4 in bronchial epithelial cells.	Leukotriene (LT)C4, a potent chemical mediator in bronchial asthma, is metabolised to the less active LTE4 via LTD4 in two consecutive reactions catalysed by enzymes of the glutamyl transpeptidase and dipeptidase families. The activities of these catabolic enzymes may be influenced by glucocorticosteroids. This study was conducted to examine whether this inactivation of LTC4 is affected by dexamethasone (DEX) in transformed human bronchial epithelial cells and normal human bronchial epithelial cells. After incubation with DEX for 0-5 days, cells were resuspended in the presence of exogenous LTC4, and conversion of LTC4 to LTE4 was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and GGT-related enzyme (GGTRE) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression were examined using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis, and GGT activity by enzyme assay. Conversion to LTE4 was accelerated by DEX pretreatment. GGTRE but not GGT mRNA expression was enhanced after incubation with DEX. The results indicate that dexamethasone transcriptionally upregulates the activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-related enzyme in human bronchial epithelial cells, which accelerates inactivation of leukotriene C4 via conversion to leukotriene E4. This is a novel mechanism of glucocorticosteroids in human bronchial epithelial cells.
14630364	Liquid chromatography method for plant and mammalian lignans in human urine.	Recently new mammalian lignan precursors were identified but no analysis methods are available for assay of those compounds in human urine. Previously published methods were developed for GC-MS about only two plant lignans were included. Consequently, a method for HPLC equipped with a coulometric electrode array detector was developed to measure plant and mammalian lignans in human urine. The plant lignans, secoisolariciresinol (Seco), matairesinol (Mat), lariciresinol (Lar), pinoresinol (Pin), syringaresinol (Syr) and isolariciresinol (IsoL) were included into the new method together with two mammalian lignans, enterolactone (Enl) and enterodiol (End). Validation of the method demonstrated that it could be applied to normal urine containing low amounts of plant lignans and moderate amounts of mammalian lignans, but the method was also applicable for samples from study subjects in supplementation studies, i.e. sample with very high concentrations of mammalian lignans. The method was found to be a useful tool for studies on plant lignan intake and the activity of micro flora in the metabolism of plant lignans.
14675839	Serum concentrations of perfluorooctanesulfonate and other fluorochemicals in an elderly population from Seattle, Washington.	Perfluorooctanesulfonyl fluoride (POSF, C8F17SO2F) related-materials have been used as surfactants, paper and packaging treatments, and surface (e.g., carpet, textile, upholstery) protectants. A metabolite, perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS, C8F17SO3-), has been identified in the serum and liver of non-occupationally exposed humans and wildlife. Because of its persistence, an important question was whether elderly humans might have higher PFOS concentrations. From a prospective study designed to examine cognitive function in the Seattle (WA) metropolitan area, blood samples were collected from 238 dementia-free subjects (ages 65-96). High-pressure liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry determined seven fluorochemicals: PFOS; N-ethyl perfluorooctanesulfonamidoacetate; N-methyl perfluorooctanesulfonamidoacetate; perfluorooctanesulfonamidoacetate; perfluorooctanesulfonamide; perfluorooctanoate; and perfluorohexanesulfonate. Serum PFOS concentrations ranged from less than the lower limit of quantitation (3.4 ppb) to 175.0 ppb (geometric mean 31.0 ppb; 95% CI 28.8-33.4). An estimate of the 95% tolerance limit was 84.1 ppb (upper 95% confidence limit 104.0 ppb). Serum PFOS concentrations were slightly lower among the most elderly. There were no significant differences by sex or years residence in Seattle. The distributions of the other fluorochemicals were approximately an order of magnitude lower. Similar to other reported findings of younger adults, the geometric mean serum PFOS concentration in non-occupational adult populations likely approximates 30-40 ppb with 95% of the population's serum PFOS concentrations below 100 ppb.
14690369	Characterization of metabolites of hydroxycinnamates in the in vitro model of human small intestinal epithelium caco-2 cells.	Hydroxycinnamic acids are antioxidant phenolic compounds which are widespread in plant foods, contribute significantly to total polyphenol intakes, and are absorbed by humans. The extent of their putative health benefit in vivo depends largely on their bioavailability. However, the mechanisms of absorption and metabolism of these phenolic compounds have not been described. In this study, we used the in vitro Caco-2 model of human small intestinal epithelium to investigate the metabolism of the major dietary hydroxycinnamates (ferulate, sinapate, p-coumarate, and caffeate) and of diferulates. The appearance of metabolites in the medium versus time was monitored, and the various conjugates and derivatives produced were identified by HPLC-DAD, LC/MS, and enzyme treatment with beta-glucuronidase or sulfatase. Enterocyte-like differentiated Caco-2 cells have extra- and intracellular esterases able to de-esterify hydroxycinnamate and diferulate esters. In addition, intracellular UDP-glucuronosyltransferases and sulfotransferases existing in Caco-2 cells are able to form the sulfate and the glucuronide conjugates of methyl ferulate, methyl sinapate, methyl caffeate, and methyl p-coumarate. However, only the sulfate conjugates of the free acids, ferulic acid, sinapic acid, and p-coumaric acid, were detected after 24 h. The O-methylated derivatives, ferulic and isoferulic acid, were the only metabolites detected following incubation of Caco-2 cells with caffeic acid. These results show that the in vitro model system differentiated Caco-2 cells have the capacity to metabolize dietary hydroxycinnamates, including various phase I (de-esterification) and phase II (glucuronidation, sulfation, and O-methylation) reactions, and suggests that the human small intestinal epithelium plays a role in the metabolism and bioavailability of these phenolic compounds.
15051535	Rapid determination of six urinary benzene metabolites in occupationally exposed and unexposed subjects.	A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method for measurement of the main urinary metabolites of benzene, namely, phenol, catechol, hydroquinone, 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene (trihydroxybenzene), t,t-muconic acid (muconic acid), and S-phenylmercapturic acid (phenylmercapturic acid), is reported. The method is considerably simpler than existing assays. It was applied to urine from benzene-exposed subjects and controls from Shanghai, China. When subjects were divided into controls (n = 44), those exposed to </= 31 ppm benzene (n = 21), and those exposed to > 31 ppm benzene (n = 19), Spearman correlations with exposure category were >/= 0.728 (p < 0.0001) for all metabolites except trihydroxybenzene. When exposed subjects were compared on an individual basis, all metabolites, including trihydroxybenzene, were significantly correlated with benzene exposure (Pearson r >/= 0.472, p </= 0.002) and with each other (Pearson r >/= 0.708, p < 0.0001). Ratios of individual metabolite levels to total metabolite levels provided evidence of competitive inhibition of CYP 2E1 enzymes leading to increased production of phenol, catechol, and phenylmercapturic acid at the expense of hydroquinone, trihydroxybenzene, and muconic acid. Since all metabolites were detected in all control subjects, the method can be applied to persons exposed to environmental levels of benzene.
15087594	Identification of benzene metabolites in dermal fibroblasts as nonphenolic: regulation of cell viability, apoptosis, lipid peroxidation and expression of matrix metalloproteinase 1 and elastin by benzene metabolites.	The skin is exposed to benzene and its derivatives, prevalent environmental chemicals. They may impair the structural integrity of the skin by increased expression of matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1; degrades structural collagen) and elastin, synthesized primarily by the dermal fibroblasts. We examined the metabolism of benzene in dermal fibroblasts and identified the benzene metabolites as toluene, benzaldehyde, aniline and benzoic acid. These metabolites were not toxic to the cells with regard to cell viability, apoptosis and lipid peroxidation, unlike the phenolic benzene metabolites (hydroquinone, t-butyl hydroquinone and phenol) or hydrogen peroxide. Toluene and phenol, which compose cigarette smoke, and benzaldehyde stimulated MMP-1 and/or elastin expression. In summary, the dermal fibroblasts metabolize benzene to nonphenolic metabolites that are less toxic to the cellular components than the phenolic benzene derivatives. Toluene, benzaldehyde and phenol can directly cause facial wrinkling and impaired structural integrity by upregulating MMP-1 and/or elastin.
15236437	Simultaneous determination of estramustine phosphate and its four metabolites in human plasma by liquid chromatography-ionspray mass spectrometry.	A sensitive and selective method, using liquid chromatography-ionspray mass spectrometry, was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of Estracyt (estramustine phosphate) and its four metabolites, estramustine, estromustine, estrone and estradiol, in human plasma. Deuterated internal standards were available for all analytes. The five compounds were extracted from plasma by protein precipitation with acetonitrile. The chromatographic separation was performed using a Zorbax SB C18, (150 x 4.6 mm i.d., 5 microm) reversed-phase column under gradient conditions with a mobile phase containing 2 mm ammonium acetate buffer (pH 6.8) and acetonitrile. MS detection was by electrospray ionization with multiple reaction monitoring in the positive ion mode for estramustine phosphate, estromustine and estramustine, and in the negative ion mode for estrone and estradiol. The limit of quantitation was 10 ng/mL for estramustine phosphate, 3 ng/mL for estromustine, estramustine and estrone and 30 ng/mL for estradiol. Linearity was verified from these LLOQs up to about 4000 ng/mL for the parent drug and 2000 ng/mL for the metabolites. Inter-day precision and accuracy values were all less than 15%. This assay was applied successfully to the routine analysis of human plasma samples collected in cancer patients administered estramustine phosphate intravenously.
15279827	Identification of cytochrome P-450s involved in the formation of APNH from norharman with aniline.	Mutagenic 9-(4'-aminophenyl)-9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole (aminophenylnorharman, APNH), formed from norharman and aniline in the presence of S9 mix, is thought to be accountable for the co-mutagenic action of norharman. Our previous studies suggest that cytochrome P-450s (CYPs) are involved in the generation of APNH. In order to identify the responsible CYP species in the present study, norharman (8 mg) and aniline (4 mg) were incubated with individual recombinant human CYPs (2 nmol) at 37 degrees C for 20 min. Formation of APNH was observed with CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, CYP2B6, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4, but not with CYP2A6, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. The amounts of APNH from norharman and aniline were 33 ng for CYP1A1, 15 ng for CYP3A4, 7 ng for CYP2D6, 6 ng for CYP1A2 and 5 ng for CYP2B6. APNH formation in the presence of CYP1B1 and CYP2E1 was very low at around one fiftieth of that with CYP3A4. When CYP selective chemical inhibitors, such as furafylline for CYP1A2 and ketoconazole for CYP3A4, were added to the reaction mixture of norharman, aniline and human microsomes, formation of APNH was decreased to 14 and 16% of the control level, respectively. Moreover, human lung microsomes also showed the activity of APNH formation from norharman and aniline, albeit at only one hundredth of that with liver microsomes. In general, content in human liver microsomes is rather high for CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 but relatively low for CYP2D6 and CYP2B6, at about 30, 10, 1.5% and less than 1% of the total CYP, respectively. Although CYP1A1 showed the highest APNH formation activity, its expression in human liver is reported to be below the level of detection. Based on these observations, it is suggested that the practical major contributors to the formation of APNH from norharman and aniline are CYP3A4 and CYP1A2, the responsible reactions mainly occurring in the liver.
15523046	Bioactivation of the nontricyclic antidepressant nefazodone to a reactive quinone-imine species in human liver microsomes and recombinant cytochrome P450 3A4.	The therapeutic benefits of the antidepressant nefazodone have been hampered by several cases of acute hepatotoxicity/liver failure. Although the mechanism of hepatotoxicity remains unknown, it is possible that reactive metabolites of nefazodone play a causative role. Studies were initiated to determine whether nefazodone undergoes bioactivation in human liver microsomes to electrophilic intermediates. Following incubation of nefazodone with microsomes or recombinant P4503A4 in the presence of sulfydryl nucleophiles, conjugates derived from the addition of thiol to a monohydroxylated nefazodone metabolite were observed. Product ion spectra suggested that hydroxylation and sulfydryl conjugation occurred on the 3-chlorophenylpiperazine-ring, consistent with a bioactivation pathway involving initial formation of p-hydroxynefazodone, followed by its two-electron oxidation to the reactive quinone-imine intermediate. The formation of novel N-dearylated nefazodone metabolites was also discernible in these incubations, and 2-chloro-1,4-benzoquinone, a by-product of N-dearylation, was trapped with glutathione to afford the corresponding hydroquinone-sulfydryl adduct. Nefazodone also displayed NADPH-, time-, and concentration-dependent inactivation of P4503A4 activity, suggesting that reactive metabolites derived from nefazodone bioactivation are capable of covalently modifying P4503A4. A causative role for 2-chloro-1,4-benzoquinone and/or the quinone-imine intermediate(s) in nefazodone hepatotoxicity is speculated. Although the antianxiety agent buspirone, which contains a pyrimidine ring in place of the 3-chlorophenyl-ring, also generated p-hydroxybuspirone in liver microsomes, no sulfydryl conjugates of this metabolite were observed. This finding is consistent with the proposal that two-electron oxidation of p-hydroxybuspirone to the corresponding quinone-imine is less favorable due to differences in the protonation state at physiological pH and due to weaker resonance stabilization of the oxidation products as predicted from ab initio measurements.
15650074	Human liver S9 fractions: metabolism of dehydroepiandrosterone, epiandrosterone, and related 7-hydroxylated derivatives.	Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and 3beta-hydroxy-5alpha-androstan-17-one (epiandrosterone, EpiA) are both precursors for 7alpha- and 7beta-hydroxylated metabolites in the human brain. These 7-hydroxylated derivatives were shown to exert anti-glucocorticoid and neuroprotective effects. When these steroids are administered per os to humans, the first organ encountered is the liver, where extensive metabolism takes place. The objective of this work was to assess the cofactor dependence and metabolism of DHEA, EpiA, and their 7-hydroxylated derivatives in S9 fractions of human liver, using a radiolabeled steroid substrate for quantification and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for identification. The best transformation yields were obtained with NADPH and were larger in female than in male. Results showed that both DHEA and EpiA mainly transformed into their 17beta-hydroxylated derivatives, 7- or 16alpha-hydroxylated metabolites under NAD(P)H conditions, and 5alpha-androstane-3,17-dione for EpiA under NAD(P)+ conditions. In turn, 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA and 7beta-hydroxy-DHEA were partly transformed into each other via a 7-oxo-DHEA intermediate and were reduced into the 17beta-hydroxy derivative, respectively. The same type of transformations occurred for 7alpha-hydroxy-EpiA and 7beta-hydroxy-EpiA, except that no 7-oxo-EpiA intermediate was obtained. These findings determine the presence of enzymes responsible for the 7alpha- and 16alpha-hydroxylation in the human liver, the 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 responsible for the oxidoreduction of the 7-hydroxylated substrates, and the 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase responsible for the reduction of 17-oxo-steroids into 17beta-hydroxysteroids.
16001212	Urinary methoxyacetic acid as an indicator of occupational exposure to ethylene glycol dimethyl ether.	To investigate whether methoxyacetic acid (MAA) is the metabolite of ethylene glycol dimethyl ether (EGdiME) in humans and whether its metabolite in urine can be used as a biomarker for exposure to EGdiME. Workers occupationally exposed to EGdiME, as well as nonexposed controls, were studied. Urine samples were collected from 20 control subjects and, on Friday postshift, from 14 workers. The identification and quantification of the metabolite were performed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and GC/FID, respectively. Air samples were collected on activated charcoal tubes by area sampling with battery-operated pumps. The glycol ether was analyzed by GC/FID. GC/MS clearly showed the metabolite of EGdiME to be MAA. Urinary MAA levels in the control subjects (background levels) were 0.0-0.3 mg/g crea. The levels of urinary MAA in the solvent-exposed workers were significantly (P<0.0001) higher than those in the control subjects. In the eight workers exposed to an average of 0.3 ppm of EGdiME and the six workers exposed to an average of 2.9 ppm, the mean urinary MAA level was 1.08 (range 0.6-1.5) mg/g crea and 9.33 (range 5.7-18.1) mg/g crea, respectively. These results can be explained by differences in the exposure intensity. Our results suggest that MAA is the metabolite of EGdiME, and that MAA in urine may be used for biological monitoring of EGdiME exposures.
1601967	Simultaneous high-performance liquid chromatographic determination of urinary metabolites of benzene, nitrobenzene, toluene, xylene and styrene.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method is described for the simultaneous determination of six urinary metabolites of several aromatic chemicals: phenol (from benzene), hippuric acid (from toluene), 3-methylhippuric acid (from xylene), mandelic and phenylglyoxylic acid (from styrene) and 4-nitrophenol (from nitrobenzene). Reversed-phase liquid chromatography was performed in an isocratic mode at 1 ml/min on a 5-microns C18 column using two mobile phases: (A) acetonitrile-1% phosphoric acid (10:90); (B) acetonitrile-1% phosphoric acid (30:70). Phase A separates the six metabolites well, but phase B allows to a more rapid and reproducible simultaneous determination of phenolic compounds than phase A. For these compounds a prior enzymic hydrolysis step using Helix pomatia juice is performed to hydrolyse their sulphate and glucuronate conjugates. The reproducibility and the specificity are both excellent. Furthermore, the method is rapid, economical and easily automated. The proposed method appears very suitable for the routine monitoring of workers exposed to these chemicals on the basis of the biological threshold limit values.
16023337	Dose-response effects of phytoestrogens on the activity and expression of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and aromatase in human granulosa-luteal cells.	There is evidence that certain phytoestrogens can inhibit key steroidogenic enzymes although most studies have been carried out on microsomal or purified enzyme preparations, some using cell lines. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that low doses of phytoestrogens, at concentrations that would be attained through the diet, could inhibit 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) and/or aromatase in primary cultures of human granulosa-luteal (GL) cells and that this effect was due to a decrease in the expression of these proteins. Based on published evidence, eight compounds were selected for investigation and these included the flavones apigenin and quercetin, the isoflavones genistein, biochanin A and daidzein, the lignans, enterodiol and enterolactone, and the mycotoxin zearalenone. Human GL cells were cultured for 48 h in the presence of these phytoestrogens at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 100 microM and after addition of fresh media the conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone or androstenedione to oestradiol over a 4h period was measured. Biochanin A was the only phytoestrogen that displayed any dose-dependent inhibition of 3beta-HSD, others showing inhibition at doses >/=10 microM. Apigenin and quercetin only inhibited aromatase/17beta-HSD at high doses as did genistein, biochanin A and daidzein. The lignans had weak inhibitory effects on aromatase/17beta-HSD, whilst zearalenone showed potent inhibition at 0.1 microM. Phytoestrogens did not exert any significant effects on protein expression of 3beta-HSD or aromatase as determined by Western blots. It is concluded that steroidogenic enzymes are inhibited by phytoestrogens in primary cultures of human GL cells but these cells are less sensitive to the effects of phytoestrogens than cell-free systems. This may be due to poor lipid solubility or cellular metabolism. We have also shown for the first time that phytoestrogens do not act by inhibiting the cellular concentration of 3beta-HSD and aromatase even though exposure time would have allowed for changes in gene expression.
16203183	Liquid chromatography-electrospray mass spectrometry determination of carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and eight of their metabolites in human plasma.	Carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXCBZ) are both antiepileptic drugs, which are prescribed as first-line drugs for the treatment of partial and generalized tonic-clonic epileptic seizures. In this paper, a specific and sensitive liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry method was described for the simultaneous determination of carbamazepine (CBZ), oxcarbazepine (OXCBZ) and eight of their metabolites [CBZ-10,11-epoxide (CBZ-EP), 10,11-dihydro-10,11-trans-dihydroxy-carbamazepine (DiOH-CBZ), 10-hydroxy-10,11-dihydroCBZ (10-OH-CBZ), 2-hydroxycarbamazepine (2-OH-CBZ), 3-hydroxycarbamazepine (3-OH-CBZ), iminostilbene (IM), acridone (AO) and acridine (AI)] in human plasma. The work-up procedure involved a simple precipitation with acetone. Separation of the analytes was achieved within 50 min using a Zorbax eclipse XD8 C8 analytical column. The mobile phase consisted of a mixture of acetonitrile-formate buffer (2 mM, pH 3). Detection was performed using a quadrupole mass spectrometer fitted with an electrospray ion source. Mass spectrometric data were acquired in single ion recording mode at m/z 237 for CBZ, m/z 180 for CBZ-EP and AI, m/z 236 for OXCBZ, m/z 237 for 10-OH-CBZ, m/z 253 for 2-OH-CBZ, 3-OH-CBZ and DiOH-CBZ, m/z 196 for AO and m/z 194 for IM. For all analytes, the drug/internal standard peak height ratios were linked via a quadratic relationship to plasma concentrations. The extraction recovery averaged 90% for CBZ, 80% for OXCBZ and was 80-105% for the metabolites. The lower limit of quantitation was 0.5mg/l for CBZ, 0.4 mg/l for OXCBZ and ranged from 0.02 to 0.3 mg/l for the metabolites. Precision ranged from 2 to 13% and accuracy was between 86 and 112%. This method was found suitable for the analysis of plasma samples collected during therapeutic drug monitoring of patients treated with CBZ or OXCBZ.
16359174	Stability and comparative metabolism of selected felbamate metabolites and postulated fluorofelbamate metabolites by postmitochondrial suspensions.	Evidence has been presented suggesting that a reactive metabolite, 2-phenylpropenal (ATPAL), may be responsible for the toxicities observed during therapy with the antiepileptic drug felbamate (FBM). Formation of ATPAL from its unstable immediate precursor, 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionaldedhyde (CBMA) requires the loss of the hydrogen atom at position 2 in the propane chain, and it has been postulated that substitution of this atom with fluorine would prevent the formation of ATPAL. On the basis of this hypothesis, 2-fluoro-2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate (F-FBM) was synthesized and is presently undergoing drug development. To test this hypothesis, we compared the metabolism by human liver postmitochondrial suspensions (S9) in vitro of selected FBM and postulated F-FBM metabolites leading to formation of CBMA or 3-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-2-phenyl-propionaldehyde (F-CBMA). All S9 incubations included GSH as a trapping agent for any reactive metabolites formed. Our results indicated that, in phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at 37 degrees C, the half-life for 4-hydroxy-5-phenyltetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one (CCMF) was 2.8 and 3.6 h in the presence or absence of GSH, respectively; compared to 4-hydroxy-5-fluoro-5-phenyl-tetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one (F-CCMF) which lost only 2.5% or 4.9% over 24 h under the same conditions. When incubated with S9 in the presence of the cofactor, NAD+, 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol monocarbamate (MCF) was oxidized to CCMF which was further oxidized to 3-carbamoyl-2-phenylpropionic acid (CPPA). 2-Fluoro-2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol monocarbamate (F-MCF) under similar conditions was stable, and no metabolites were observed. When CCMF was incubated with S9 in the presence of NAD+ cofactor, oxidation to CPPA and reduction to MCF were observed. In addition, a new atropic acid GSH adduct (ATPA-GSH) was identified by mass spectrometry. When F-CCMF was incubated under the same conditions as CCMF, both reduced and oxidized metabolites, F-MCF and 3-carbamoyl-2-fluoro-2-phenylpropionic acid (F-CPPA), respectively, were formed but at significantly lower rates, and no GSH conjugates were identified. Our results support the hypothesis that F-FBM and F-CCMF are not metabolized by S9 in vitro to the known reactive FBM metabolite, ATPAL.
16488523	Analysis of enterolignan glucuronides in serum and urine by HPLC-ESI-MS.	A method involving the coupling of high-performance liquid chromatography with electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS) for the quantitative determination of the mammalian lignans enterolactone and enterodiol in human blood and urine has been developed. In contrast to techniques previously published, the method allows direct measurement of free enterolignans as well as their monoglucuronide conjugates in human biofluids with minimal sample preparation. Thereby the method is suitable for large-scale intervention, case-control and epidemiologic studies. Comprehensive, high-precision (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance data (CD3OD as solvent) obtained at 11.7 T in combination with polarimetric data show that the major form of lignan precursor in the linseeds used is (-)-secoisolariciresinol diglucoside ((2R,3R)-2,3-bis(4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxy-benzyl)-1,4-butanediyl-bis-beta-d-glucopyranoside) which is transformed by human intestinal bacteria into (+)-enterodiol and (+)-enterolactone. However, these metabolites are mono-glucuronidated after absorption and are detected as (-)-enterodiol 3'-beta-d-glucuronide=(2R,3R)-2-(3'-O-(beta-d-glucopyranosyluronic acid)benzyl)-3-(3''-hydroxybenzyl)-butane-1,4,diol and (-)-enterolactone 3'-beta-d-glucuronide=(2R,3R)-2-(3'-O-(beta-d-glucopyranosyluronic acid)benzyl)-3-(3''-hydroxybenzyl)-beta-butyrolactone in blood and urine.
16507648	Detection of a new N-oxidized metabolite of flutamide, N-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]hydroxylamine, in human liver microsomes and urine of prostate cancer patients.	Flutamide (2-methyl-N-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-propanamide), a nonsteroidal antiandrogen, is used in the treatment of prostate cancer but is occasionally associated with hepatic dysfunction. In the present study, the metabolism of flutamide including the formation of the possible reactive toxic metabolites was investigated using human liver microsomes and 10 isoforms of recombinant human cytochrome P450 (P450). 2-Hydroxyflutamide (OH-flutamide) and 4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenylamine (FLU-1) were the main products of flutamide metabolism in human liver microsomes. The formation of OH-flutamide was markedly inhibited by ellipticine, an inhibitor of CYP1A1/1A2, and was mainly catalyzed by the recombinant CYP1A2. FLU-1 was also produced from OH-flutamide, but its metabolic rate was much less than that from flutamide. An inhibitor of carboxylesterase, bis-(p-nitrophenyl)phosphoric acid, completely inhibited the formation of FLU-1 from flutamide in human liver microsomes. A new metabolite, N-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]hydroxylamine (FLU-1-N-OH), was detected as a product of the reaction of FLU-1 with human liver microsomes and identified by comparison with the synthetic standard. The formation of FLU-1-N-OH was markedly inhibited by the addition of miconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4, and was mediated by recombinant CYP3A4. Furthermore, FLU-1-N-OH was detected mostly as the conjugates (glucuronide/sulfate) in the urine of prostate cancer patients collected for 3 h after treatment with flutamide. The formation of FLU-1-N-OH, however, did not differ between patients with and without abnormalities of hepatic functions among a total of 29 patients. The lack of an apparent association of the urinary excretion of FLU-1-N-OH and hepatic disorder may suggest the involvement of an additional unknown factor in the mechanisms of flutamide hepatotoxicity.
16510319	Development and validation of an HPLC method for the determination of spironolactone and its metabolites in paediatric plasma samples.	An HPLC method has been developed and validated for the determination of spironolactone, 7 alpha-thiomethylspirolactone and canrenone in paediatric plasma samples. The method utilises 200 microl of plasma and sample preparation involves protein precipitation followed by Solid Phase Extraction (SPE). Determination of standard curves of peak height ratio (PHR) against concentration was performed by weighted least squares linear regression using a weighting factor of 1/concentration2. The developed method was found to be linear over concentration ranges of 30-1000 ng/ml for spironolactone and 25-1000 ng/ml for 7 alpha-thiomethylspirolactone and canrenone. The lower limit of quantification for spironolactone, 7 alpha-thiomethylspirolactone and canrenone were calculated as 28, 20 and 25 ng/ml, respectively. The method was shown to be applicable to the determination of spironolactone, 7 alpha-thiomethylspirolactone and canrenone in paediatric plasma samples and also plasma from healthy human volunteers.
16925936	Solid-phase microextraction: investigation of the metabolism of substances that may be abused by inhalation.	Purified liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), a mixture of butane, isobutane, and propane, is commonly abused by inhalation. Little is known about the mammalian metabolism of these substances. Metabolism of other hydrocarbons, including n-hexane and cyclohexane, has been studied in vitro using a range of liver preparations, with metabolites analyzed by static headspace techniques. Solid-phase microextraction (SPME) for sampling metabolites in the headspace of incubates of volatile compounds with activated rat liver microsomes is investigated. Cyclohexanol and cyclohexanone were formed from cyclohexane and 1-, 2-, and 3-hexanol and 2-hexanone from n-hexane as predicted. Secondary alcohols are found for the other compounds studied, except for propene and isobutane, together with 2-propanone and 2-butanone from propane and n-butane, respectively. Samples from three individuals who died following LPG abuse contained a range of putative n-butane metabolites: n-butanol, 2-butanol, 2,3-butanediol, 3-hydroxy-2-butanone, and 2,3-butanedione. To our knowledge, the last three compounds have not been proposed as metabolites of n-butane in man. These might be produced through similar metabolic pathways to those of n-hexane and n-heptane. The findings indicate the value of SPME for investigating the metabolism of volatile substances and for detecting and monitoring exposure to these compounds.
16939358	Ingestion of oregano extract increases excretion of urinary phenolic metabolites in humans.	Despite the promising antioxidant action of Lamiaceae herbs in vitro, human studies on these potential sources of dietary antioxidants have remained scarce. In this work, the phenolic acids recovered in human urine after single ingestion of Origanum onites extract were analyzed. The excretion was increased 4- and 2-fold during 0-24 and 24-48 h of the follow-up, respectively. The mean increase in the excretion of phenolic compounds exceeded the ingested amount of identified phenolic acids. The result can be partly explained by rosmarinic acid, the main identified phenolic constituent in the extract, as well as flavonoids present in minor amounts, presumably being metabolized into a double amount of simple phenolic metabolites. Furthermore, unidentified phenolic constituents in the extract partly contribute to the excretory increase. The main metabolite, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, was excreted rapidly. The results show that constituents of oregano extract and, in particular, their metabolites may contribute to the dietary intake of phenolic antioxidants.
17219606	Detection of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid A in human urine and blood serum by LC-MS/MS.	Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid A (Delta9-THCA-A) is the precursor of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) in hemp plants. During smoking, the non-psychoactive Delta9-THCA-A is converted to Delta9-THC, the main psychoactive component of marihuana and hashish. Although the decarboxylation of Delta9-THCA-A to Delta9-THC was assumed to be complete--which means that no Delta9-THCA-A should be detectable in urine and blood serum of cannabis consumers--we found Delta9-THCA-A in the urine and blood serum samples collected from police controls of drivers suspected for driving under the influence of drugs (DUID). For LC-MS/MS analysis, urine and blood serum samples were prepared by solid-phase extraction. Analysis was performed with a phenylhexyl column using gradient elution with acetonitrile. For detection of Delta9-THCA-A, the mass spectrometer (MS) (SCIEX API 365 triple-quadrupole MS with TurboIonSpray source) was operated in the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode using the following transitions: m/z357 --> 313, m/z357 --> 245 and m/z357 --> 191. Delta9-THCA-A could be detected in the urine and blood serum samples of several cannabis consumers in concentrations of up to 10.8 ng/ml in urine and 14.8 ng/ml in serum. The concentration of Delta9-THCA-A was below the Delta9-THC concentration in most serum samples, resulting in molar ratios of Delta9-THCA-A/Delta9-THC of approximately 5.0-18.6%. Only in one case, where a short elapsed time between the last intake and blood sampling is assumed, the molar ratio was 18.6% in the serum. This indicates differences in elimination kinetics, which need to be investigated in detail.
17521300	Artemisinin antimalarials moderately affect cytochrome P450 enzyme activity in healthy subjects.	The aim of this study was to investigate which principal human cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes are affected by artemisinin and to what degree the artemisinin derivatives differ with respect to their respective induction and inhibition capacity. Seventy-five healthy adults were randomized to receive therapeutic oral doses of artemisinin, dihydroartemisinin, arteether, artemether or artesunate for 5 days (days 1-5). A six-drug cocktail consisting of caffeine, coumarin, mephenytoin, metoprolol, chlorzoxazone and midazolam was administered orally on days -6, 1, 5 and 10 to assess the activities of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A, respectively. Four-hour plasma concentrations of parent drugs and corresponding metabolites and 7-hydroxycoumarin urine concentrations were quantified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The 1-hydroxymidazolam/midazolam 4-h plasma concentration ratio (CYP3A) was increased on day 5 by artemisinin [2.66-fold (98.75% CI: 2.10-3.36)], artemether [1.54 (1.14-2.09)] and dihydroartemisinin [1.25 (1.06-1.47)] compared with day -6. The S-4'-hydroxymephenytoin/S-mephenytoin ratio (CYP2C19) was increased on day 5 by artemisinin [1.69 (1.47-1.94)] and arteether [1.33 (1.15-1.55)] compared with day -6. The paraxanthine/caffeine ratio (CYP1A2) was decreased on day 1 after administration of artemisinin [0.27 (0.18-0.39)], arteether [0.70 (0.55-0.89)] and dihydroartemisinin [0.73 (0.59-0.90)] compared with day -6. The alpha-hydroxymetoprolol/metoprolol ratio (CYP2D6) was lower on day 1 compared with day -6 in the artemisinin [0.82 (0.70-0.96)] and dihydroartemisinin [0.83 (0.71-0.96)] groups, respectively. In the artemisinin-treated subjects this decrease was followed by a 1.34-fold (1.14-1.58) increase from day 1 to day 5. These results show that intake of artemisinin antimalarials affect the activities of several principal human drug metabolizing CYP450 enzymes. Even though not significant in all treatment groups, changes in the individual metrics were of the same direction for all the artemisinin drugs, suggesting a class effect that needs to be considered in the development of new artemisinin derivatives and combination treatments of malaria.
17697908	Influence of food on the oral bioavailability of rupatadine tablets in healthy volunteers: a single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-way crossover study.	Rupatadine is an oral active antihistamine for the management of diseases with allergic inflammatory conditions, such as perennial and seasonal rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria. Oral rupatadine has been approved for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and chronic urticaria in adults and adolescents in several European countries. The purpose of this study was to describe the effect of the concomitant intake of food on the pharmacokinetic profile and bioavailability of a single dose of rupatadine. This was a single-dose, randomized, open-label, 2-way crossover study in which healthy male and female volunteers received a single, 20-mg oral dose of rupatadine under fed and fasting conditions. Blood samples were collected and plasma concentrations of rupatadine and its active metabolites desloratadine and 3-hydroxydesloratadine were determined by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Tolerability was based on the recording of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms, and laboratory tolerability tests immediately before each treatment period and at the final visit of the study. Twenty-four volunteers (12 males; mean [SD] age, 25.4 [5.3] years [range, 18-34 years]; mean [SD] weight, 71.2 [4.3] kg [range, 64-77 kg]; 12 females; mean [SD] age, 26.8 [6.5] years [range, 18-38 years]; mean [SD] weight, 58.4 [6.8] kg, [range 50-69 kg]) were enrolled and randomized with equal distribution of sex. A significant increase in AUC from drug administration to the final quantifiable sample (AUC(0-t)) and AUC from drug administration to infinity (AUC(0-infinity)) values of rupatadine was seen under fed conditions without affecting C(max). The ratios (90% CI) of the mean log-transformed AUC(0-t) and AUC(0-infinity) for rupatadine revealed a significant increase in AUC(0-t) (ratio 131%; 90% CI, 111%-154%) and AUC(0-infinity) (ratio 133%; 90% CI, 113%-156%), whereas C(max) remained unaltered (ratio 97%; 90% CI, 80%-116%). Plasma concentration-time profiles of desloratadine and 3-hydroxydesloratadine were similar with and without food, and no differences were seen for AUC(0-t), AUC(0-infinity), or C(max). Seven (28%) subjects reported > or =1 AE. All AEs were mild, resolved spontaneously, and did not affect the outcome of the study. The results of this study indicate that concomitant intake of food with a single 20-mg oral dose of rupatadine exhibits a significant increase in rupatadine bioavailability. Despite the absence of bioequivalence, the drug was well tolerated under fed and fasting conditions, and no major changes in severity and/or prevalence of AEs were reported.
17899082	Concentrations of the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine (FdCyd) and its cytotoxic metabolites in plasma of patients treated with FdCyd and tetrahydrouridine (THU).	Although the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine (FdCyd), is being evaluated clinically, it must be combined with the cytidine deaminase inhibitor tetrahydrouridine (THU) to prevent rapid metabolism of FdCyd to the pharmacologically active, yet unwanted, metabolites 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine (FdUrd), 5-fluorouracil (FU), and 5-fluorouridine (FUrd). We assessed plasma concentrations of FdCyd and metabolites in patients receiving FdCyd and THU. We validated an LC-MS/MS assay, developed for a preclinical study, to quantitate FdCyd and metabolites in human plasma. Patients were treated with five daily, 3-h infusions of FdCyd at doses of 5-80 mg/m(2) with 350 mg/m(2) THU. Plasma was obtained during, and before the end of infusions on days 1 and 5. The lower limits of quantitation for FU, FdUrd, FUrd, FC and FdCyd were 1, 1.5, 10, 3, and 10 ng/ml, respectively. Plasma FdCyd increased with dose, from 19-96 ng/ml at 5 mg/m(2) to 1,600-1,728 ng/ml at 80 mg/m(2). FdUrd was undetectable in patients treated with FdCyd doses <20 mg/m(2), and increased from 2.3 ng/ml at 20 mg/m(2) to 3.5-5.7 ng/ml at 80 mg/m(2). FU increased from 1.2-5.5 ng/ml at 5 mg/m(2) to 6.0-12 ng/ml at 80 mg/m(2). By co-administering FdCyd with THU, FdCyd plasma concentrations were achieved that are known to inhibit DNA methylation in vitro. The accompanying plasma FU and FdUrd concentrations are <10% those observed after therapeutic infusions of FU or FdUrd, while FdCyd levels are well above those required to inhibit methylation in vitro. Therefore, inhibition of DNA methylation with FdCyd and THU appears feasible.
18583070	Changes in correlation coefficients of exposure markers as a function of intensity of occupational exposure to toluene.	This study was initiated to identify a marker of choice to monitor occupational exposure to toluene through quantitative evaluation of changes in correlation coefficients (CCs), taking advantage of a large database. Six known or proposed exposure markers in end-of-shift blood (B) and urine (U) were studied, i.e., toluene in blood (Tol-B) and benzyl alcohol, benzylmercapturic acid, o-cresol, hippuric acid and toluene in urine (BeOH-U, BMA-U, o-CR-U, HA-U, and Tol-U, respectively). To construct a database, data on 8-h time-weighted average intensity of occupational exposure to toluene and resulting levels of the six exposure markers in blood or urine were cited for 901 cases from previous four publications of this study group and combined with 146 new cases. In practice, 874 cases (all men) were available when extremely dilute or dense urine samples were excluded. The 874 cases were classified taking the upper limit (from 120 ppm to 1 ppm) of the toluene exposure concentration, and the CCs for the six markers with TWA toluene exposure intensity were calculated. For further evaluation, the 874 cases were divided into 10 per thousand in terms of TWA toluene exposures, and several 10 per thousand were combined so that sufficient numbers of cases were available for calculation of the CCs at various levels of toluene exposure. Perusal was made to know whether or not and which one of the six makers gave significant CC even at low level of toluene exposure. The CCs for BMA-U, o-CR-U and HA-U with TWA toluene exposure were well >0.7 when toluene exposure was intense (e.g., up to 60-100 ppm as the upper limit of the exposure range), but were reduced when the upper limit of toluene exposure was less than 50 ppm, and the CCs were as small as <==0.2 when the upper limit was about 10 ppm or less. In contrast, Tol-U and Tol-B were correlated with exposure to toluene down to the <or=3 ppm range. The CC for BeOH-U was <0.1 almost throughout the exposure ranges. Further analyses showed that the CCs for all markers (except the CC for BeOH-U) were >0.4 when the cases in the 60th-100th per thousand were examined. The CCs for Tol-U and Tol-B were >0.3 also for cases in the 0th-60th or 30th-70th per thousand, whereas the CCs for other four markers were <0.3. In over-all evaluation, it was concluded that HA and o-CR are among the markers of choice to monitor occupational toluene exposure at high levels, and that only un-metabolized toluene in urine or in blood is recommended when toluene exposure level is low (e.g., 10 ppm or less). Toluene in urine may be preferred rather than that in blood due to practical reasons, such as non-invasiveness.
18665357	Influences of levodopa on adipose tissue and skeletal muscle metabolism in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease.	The substantial weight loss in Parkinson's patients may be related to direct influences of levodopa treatment on fat mobilization/oxidation. We assessed systemic and local metabolic responses to levodopa/benserazide in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. We studied 10 Parkinson's disease patients and examined adipose tissue and skeletal muscle metabolism directly with microdialysis. We monitored dialysate concentrations of ethanol, glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and glycerol to assess tissue blood flow and metabolism before and after levodopa/benserazide intake. We also conducted in vitro studies on adipocytes from healthy women. Levodopa/benserazide increased serum levodopa, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and norepinephrine (P < 0.01). Serum adipose tissue and skeletal muscle glycerol did not change or decreased. Adipose tissue glycerol was inversely correlated with serum levodopa concentrations (P < 0.05). In isolated adipocytes, levodopa attenuated isoproterenol-induced glycerol release (P < 0.05). Levodopa/benserazide elicits pronounced metabolic changes in both adipose tissue and skeletal muscle with a switch from lipid to carbohydrate metabolism. In adipose tissue, levodopa/benserazide failed to activate lipolysis. Therefore, we suggest that levodopa/benserazide does not induce fat wasting through direct and acute influences on adipose tissue metabolism.
18968121	Recognition and simultaneous determination of ofloxacin enantiomers by synchronization-1st derivative fluorescence spectroscopy.	Under controlling pH 3, R-(+)- and S-(-)-ofloxacin (OFLX) enantiomers can be well recognized and resolved by the synchronization-1st derivative fluorescence spectroscopic techniques, and the interference from urine blank also can be eliminated. The linear dynamic ranges are 0.36-2.16 (R), 0.36-2.89 and 3.16-31.6 mug/ml (S), respectively, for determining OFLX in urine samples. The limits of detection are 0.36 mug/ml (R) and the recoveries of R-(+)- and S-(-)-OFLX in urine samples are 97-104%. Relative standard deviation is <6.6%. Pharmacokinetic study of OFLX and levofloxacin shows that R-(+)- and S-(-)-ofloxacin reach their peak concentration in urine samples after a healthy subject has taken tablets for approximately 3 and 6 h, respectively. R-(+)-OFLX can be obviously detected in 5-6 h after a healthy subject has taken tablets, indicating the transformation of S-(-)- to R-(+)-OFLX enantiomer in human body (in vitro).
19025884	The detection of androstenedione abuse in sport: a mass spectrometry strategy to identify the 4-hydroxyandrostenedione metabolite.	Studies have shown that the administration of androstenedione (ADIONE) significantly increases the urinary ratio of testosterone glucuronide to epitestosterone glucuronide (T/E) - measured by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) - in subjects with a normal ( approximately 1) or naturally high (>1) initial values. However, the urinary T/E ratio has been shown not to increase in subjects with naturally low (<1) initial values. Such cases then rely on the detection of C(6)-hydroxylated metabolites shown to be indicative of ADIONE administration. While these markers may be measured in the routine GC/MS steroid profile, their relatively low urinary excretion limits the use of gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/C/IRMS) to specifically confirm ADIONE administration based on depleted (13)C content. A mass spectrometry strategy was used in this study to identify metabolites of ADIONE with the potential to provide compound-specific detection. C(4)-hydroxylation was subsequently shown to be a major metabolic pathway following ADIONE administration, thereby resulting in urinary excretion of 4-hydroxyandrostenedione (4OH-ADIONE). Complementary analysis of 4OH-ADIONE by GC/MS and GC/C/IRMS was used to confirm ADIONE administration.
20113739	Liquid chromatographic analysis of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in plasma and saliva after a novel microextraction by packed sorbent procedure.	A rapid and reliable analytical method suitable for the simultaneous determination of the antiepileptic drug, oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in human plasma and saliva by means of liquid chromatography with diode array detection (DAD) has been developed. Oxcarbazepine and its metabolites (10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine, trans-10,11-dihydro-10,11-dihydroxycarbamazepine and 3-hydroxycarbamazepine) were baseline separated within 6.5 min on a reversed-phase C18 column with a phosphate buffer-acetonitrile-triethylamine mixture as the mobile phase. The DAD detector was set at 240 nm. A sample preparation method for biological samples using a microextraction by packed sorbent technique has been implemented, employing a C18 sorbent inserted into a microvolume syringe and using only a small volume (25 microL) of plasma or saliva. The extraction yield values were satisfactory for all analytes (>86.5%) as well as the precision data, which were always in the low percentage of relative standard deviation values (<4.6%). The method was successfully applied to both plasma and saliva samples drawn from psychiatric and neurological patients undergoing treatment with oxcarbazepine (Tolep) tablets.
20156429	ATP sensitizes H460 lung carcinoma cells to cisplatin-induced apoptosis.	Platinum resistance of cancer cells may evolve due to a decrease in intracellular drug accumulation, decreased cell permeability or by an increased deactivation of the drug by glutathione (GSH). The aim of this study was (1) to investigate the effect of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) on the cytotoxicity of cisplatin in a large cell lung carcinoma cell line (H460), and (2) to examine the potential involvement of increased cisplatin uptake, GSH depletion and pyrimidine starvation by ATP in this effect. H460 cells were harvested and seeded (5% CO(2); 37 degrees C). Subsequently, cells were incubated with medium or ATP followed by an incubation with cisplatin. Cytotoxicity screening was analyzed by the sulforhodamine B (SRB) colorimetric assay, lactate dehydrogenase and caspase-3/7 activity. Pre-incubation for 72h with 0.3 and 3mM ATP strongly enhanced the anti-proliferative potency of cisplatin 2.9- and 7.6-fold, respectively. Moreover, after incubation of H460 cells with 0.3mM ATP the intracellular platinum concentration increased, indicating increased cisplatin uptake by ATP. ATP, despite lowering the LD(50) of cisplatin, did not modulate GSH levels in H460 cells. ATP itself showed a biphasic effect on H460 cell growth: 0.3mM inhibited H460 cell growth via the pyrimidine starvation effect, activation of caspase-3/7 and LDH leakage, while 3mM ATP showed no effect on cell growth. In conclusion, ATP sensitizes the H460 cells to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. The effect of 0.3mM ATP is not due to GSH depletion but involves increased cisplatin uptake and pyrimidine starvation due to ATP conversion to adenosine followed by cellular uptake.
20223098	Confirming urinary excretion of mephentermine and phentermine following the ingestion of oxethazaine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis.	Mephentermine and phentermine, substances prohibited in sports by the World Anti-Doping Agency, were found for the first time in urine specimens following the administration of a therapeutic medication, oxethazaine. In a recent sporting event, a urine specimen donor who tested positive for mephentermine and phentermine claimed consumption of Mucaine((R)) for treating stomach pain was the reason for testing positive. Five volunteers were administrated oxethazaine (a topical anesthetic found in the multi-ingredient medication Mucaine and its generic equivalent, Stoin, both of which are available in Taiwan), mephentermine, and phentermine. Excretion profiles of mephentermine and phentermine following the administration of these drugs were found to be similar. However, the mephentermine/phentermine ratios found in urine specimens collected at different time points following the administration of oxethazine and mephentermine were found to be characteristically different.
20226754	Bioavailability of chlorogenic acids following acute ingestion of coffee by humans with an ileostomy.	The intestinal absorption and metabolism of 385 micromol chlorogenic acids following a single intake of 200 mL of instant coffee by human volunteers with an ileostomy was investigated. HPLC-MS(3) analysis of 0-24h post-ingestion ileal effluent revealed the presence of 274+/-28 micromol of chlorogenic acids and their metabolites accounting for 71+/-7% of intake. Of the compounds recovered, 78% comprised parent compounds initially present in the coffee, and 22% were metabolites including free and sulfated caffeic and ferulic acids. Over a 24h period after ingestion of the coffee, excretion of chlorogenic acid metabolites in urine accounted for 8+/-1% of intake, the main compounds being ferulic acid-4-O-sulfate, caffeic acid-3-O-sulfate, isoferulic acid-3-O-glucuronide and dihydrocaffeic acid-3-O-sulfate. In contrast, after drinking a similar coffee, urinary excretion by humans with an intact colon corresponded to 29+/-4% of chlorogenic acid intake. This difference was due to the excretion of higher levels of dihydroferulic acid and feruloylglycine together with sulfate and glucuronide conjugates of dihydrocaffeic and dihydroferulic acids. This highlights the importance of colonic metabolism. Comparison of the data obtained in the current study with that of Stalmach et al. facilitated elucidation of the pathways involved in post-ingestion metabolism of chlorogenic acids and also helped distinguish between compounds absorbed in the small and the large intestine.
20463005	Formation pathways of gamma-butyrolactone from the furan ring of tegafur during its conversion to 5-fluorouracil.	Tegafur (FT) is a 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) prodrug that has been clinically used for various cancer chemotherapies. The following metabolites of FT were identified in patients: 5-FU, fluoro-beta-alanine, and gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) and its acidic form, gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB). GBL/GHB, which is probably generated from the furan ring of FT, inhibits tumor cell angiogenesis, contributing to the antitumor effect of FT-based therapies. In the present study, we identified the metabolites formed from the furan ring of FT by CYP2A6 and thymidine phosphorylase (TPase) using 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine derivatization procedures and clarified the metabolic pathway of FT to GBL/GHB. Succinaldehyde (SA) and 4-hydroxybutanal (4-OH-BTL) were produced as the metabolites because of the cleavage of the furan ring of FT during its conversion to 5-FU in cDNA-expressed CYP2A6 and purified TPase, respectively; however, GBL/GHB was hardly detected in cDNA-expressed CYP2A6 and purified TPase. GBL/GHB was formed after human hepatic microsomes or cDNA-expressed CYP2A6 mixed with cytosol were incubated with FT. Furthermore, 4-OH-BTL was converted to GBL/GHB in the microsomes and cytosol. These results suggest that GBL/GHB is generated from FT through the formation of SA and 4-OH-BTL but not directly from FT. Furthermore, the amount of 5-FU and GBL/GHB formed in the hepatic S9 was markedly decreased in the presence of a CYP2A6 inhibitor, suggesting that GBL/GHB may be mainly generated through the CYP2A6-mediated formation of SA.
21345747	UHPLC method for the simultaneous determination of -blockers, isoflavones and their metabolites in human urine.	A rapid-resolution ultra high-performance liquid chromatography separation method (UHPLC) for the simultaneous determination of the following -blockers: milrinone, sotalol, metoprolol, propranolol and carvedilol, and their metabolites: 5'-hydroxylphenyl-carvedilol, O-desmethylcarvedilol, 4-hydroxypropranolol, -hydroxy-metoprolol, O-desmethyl-metoprolol; the following isoflavones: genistein, daidzein, glycitin, glycitein, puerarin and biochanin A; as well as their metabolites: dihydrogenistein, desmethylglycitein, 8-hydroxygenistein, daidzein-7,4'-diglucoside, 8-hydroxydaidzein, dihydrobiochanin A in human urine was optimized. The analysed compounds were extracted from human urine by means of solid phase extraction (SPE). The effective UHPLC separation of the examined compounds was applied on a Hypersil GOLD (50 mm2.1 mm, 1.9 m) column with a gradient mobile phase system and a UV detector. The complete separation of all analytes was achieved within 8.0 min. The method was validated for the determination of the aforementioned substances in human urine. The linear ranges, limits of detection (LOD) and limits of quantification (LOQ) for -blockers, isoflavones and their metabolites were determined. The intra- and inter-day precision (%C.V.) was less than 4.48%, and the intra-day and inter-day accuracy was less than 4.74%. The tested SPE sorbent proved that appropriate absolute recoveries can be obtained for Oasis HLB (Waters). The mean recovery of the analytes, using the new SPE procedure, amounted from 70.14% to 99.85%. The present paper reports, for the first time, the method for the determination of -blockers, isoflavones and their metabolites in human urine samples. The newly developed method was suitably validated and successfully applied for the analysis of the certain of the aforementioned analytes in human urine samples obtained from the patients suffering cardiovascular disease.
21721022	A simple LC-MS/MS method to determine plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of albendazole metabolites (albendazole sulfoxide and albendazole sulfone) in patients with neurocysticercosis.	The development and validation of an LC-MS/MS method for the simultaneous determination of albendazole metabolites (albendazole sulfoxide and albendazole sulfone) in human plasma are described. Samples of 200 L were extracted with ether-dichloromethane-chloroform (60:30:10, v/v/v). The chromatographic separation was performed using a C(18) column with methanol-formic acid 20 mmol/L (70:30) as the mobile phase. The method was linear in a range of 20-5000 ng/mL for albendazole sulfoxide and 10-1500 ng/mL for albendazole sulfone. For both analytes the method was precise (RSD < 12%) and accurate (RE <7%) with high recovery (>90%). The method was successfully applied to determine the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of albendazole sulfoxide and albendazole sulfone in patients with subarachnoidal neurocysticercosis who received albendazole at 30 mg/kg per day for 7 days. This LC-MS/MS method yielded a quick, simple and reliable protocol for determining albendazole sulfoxide and albendazole sulfone concentrations in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid samples and is applicable to therapeutic monitoring.
21909644	A phase I-II study of elacytarabine (CP-4055) in the treatment of patients with ovarian cancer resistant or refractory to platinum therapy.	Treatment of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer remains a challenge, and there is a need for new and more effective agents. A phase I-II study was designed to determine the recommended dose (RD) and the anti-tumour effect of a prolonged administration of elacytarabine, the elaidic ester of cytarabine, in patients with refractory/resistant recurrent ovarian cancer. The primary objective of the dose escalation phase I part was to determine the RD for elacytarabine when given twice for five consecutive days in a 4-week schedule, D1-5 and D8(+2)-12(+2) q4w. Three to six patients were to be enrolled at each dose level. The start dose was elacytarabine 75mg/m(2)/day. The phase II part was designed as a two-step study based on response. A total of 28 patients entered the study, 17 patients in the phase I part and 11(#) patients in phase II. Three dose levels were tested: 75mg/m(2)/day in 3 patients, 100mg/m(2)/day in 7+11(#) patients, and 125mg/m(2)/day in 7 patients. Three (17.6%) patients in phase I experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), all at the 125mg/m(2)/day dose level, establishing the lower dose of 100mg/m(2)/day as the RD. The DLTs were neutropenia grade 4 according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and thrombocytopenia grade 4 (2 patients), and vomiting grade 2 with hospitalisation and hypokalaemia grade 3 (1 patient). The best response was a clinically meaningful stabilization observed in 3 patients. In two of them, the disease stabilization exceeded the previous platinum-free interval (PFI). The RD for elacytarabine was 100mg/m(2)/day, D1-5 and D8-12 q4w. The safety profile was comparable to the safety profiles reported in previous clinical studies with elacytarabine in solid tumours. Despite some longer-lasting disease stabilisations, two of them exceeding the previous progression-free interval, further investigations of elacytarabine in the ovarian cancer indication are not warranted.
23345000	Phase I study of oral CP-4126, a gemcitabine derivative, in patients with advanced solid tumors.	CP-4126 is a gemcitabine (2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine; dFdC) 5' elaidic acid ester. The purpose of this dose-escalating study was to assess safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and preliminary antitumor activity of the oral formulation and to determine the recommended dose (RD) for phase II studies. The study had a two-step design: a non-randomized dose-escalating step I with oral CP-4126 alone, followed by a randomized, cross-over step II that compared oral CP-4126 with dFdC i.v.. CP-4126 was given on days 1,8,15 in a 4-week schedule with increasing doses until the RD was established. 26 patients with different solid tumours were enrolled in step I at seven dose levels (100-3,000 mg/day). The most frequent drug-related AEs were fatigue and dysgeusia, the majority being grade 1-2. One patient experienced a dose limiting toxicity after one dose of CP-4126 at 1,300 mg/day (ASAT grade 3). PK of CP-4126 could not be determined. The metabolites dFdC and dFdU obeyed dose-dependent pharmacokinetics. Exposures to dFdC were about ten-fold lower compared to exposures after comparable doses of dFdC i.v.. Nine patients reached stable disease as best response, whereby in one patient with vaginal carcinoma a 25 % reduction of tumor volume was reached. This study demonstrates that CP-4126 can be safely administered orally to patients up to 3,000 mg/day in a d1,8,15 q4w schedule with a tolerable safety profile. CP-4126 acts as a prodrug for dFdC when given orally, but because of the poor absorption and the rapid pre-systemic metabolism the study was terminated early and no RD could be determined.
23357637	Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine quantification in human plasma by simple protein precipitation and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	A highly sensitive ultra-high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method was developed for the quantification of buprenorphine and its major metabolite norbuprenorphine in human plasma. In order to speed up the process and decrease costs, sample preparation was performed by simple protein precipitation with acetonitrile. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first application of this extraction technique for the quantification of buprenorphine in plasma. Matrix effects were strongly reduced and selectivity increased by using an efficient chromatographic separation on a sub-2 m column (Acquity UPLC BEH C18 1.7 m, 2.150 mm) in 5 min with a gradient of ammonium formate 20 mM pH 3.05 and acetonitrile as mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.4 ml/min. Detection was made using a tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in positive electrospray ionization mode, using multiple reaction monitoring. The procedure was fully validated according to the latest Food and Drug Administration guidelines and the Socit Franaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques. Very good results were obtained by using a stable isotope-labeled internal standard for each analyte, to compensate for the variability due to the extraction and ionization steps. The method was very sensitive with lower limits of quantification of 0.1 ng/ml for buprenorphine and 0.25 ng/ml for norbuprenorphine. The upper limit of quantification was 250 ng/ml for both drugs. Trueness (98.4-113.7%), repeatability (1.9-7.7%), intermediate precision (2.6-7.9%) and internal standard-normalized matrix effects (94-101%) were in accordance with international recommendations. The procedure was successfully used to quantify plasma samples from patients included in a clinical pharmacogenetic study and can be transferred for routine therapeutic drug monitoring in clinical laboratories without further development.
23523879	In matrix derivatization of trichloroethylene metabolites in human plasma with methyl chloroformate and their determination by solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-electron capture detector.	Trichloroethylene (TCE) is a common industrial chemical that has been widely used as metal degreaser and for many industrial purposes. In humans, TCE is metabolized into dichloroacetic acid (DCA), trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and trichloroethanol (TCOH). A simple and rapid method has been developed for the quantitative determination of TCE metabolites. The procedure involves the in situ derivatization of TCE metabolites with methyl chloroformate (MCF) directly in diluted plasma samples followed by extraction and analysis with solid-phase microextraction (SPME) coupled to gas chromatography-electron capture detector (GC-ECD). Factors which can influence the efficiency of derivatization such as amount of MCF and pyridine (PYR), ratio of water/methanol were optimized. The factors which can affect the extraction efficiencies of SPME were screened using 2(7-4) Placket-Burman Design (PBD). A central composite design (CCD) was then applied to further optimize the most significant factors for optimum SPME extraction. The optimum factors for the SPME extraction were found to be 562.5mg of NaCl, pH at 1 and an extraction time of 22 min. Recoveries and detection limits of all three analytes in plasma were found to be in the range of 92.69-97.55% and 0.036-0.068 g mL(-1) of plasma, respectively. The correlation coefficients were found to be in the range of 0.990-0.995. The intra- and inter-day precisions for TCE metabolites were found to be in the range of 2.37-4.81% and 5.13-7.61%, respectively. The major advantage of this method is that MCF derivatization allows conversion of TCE metabolites into their methyl esters in very short time (30 s) at room temperature directly in the plasma samples, thus makes it a solventless analysis. The method developed was successfully applied to the plasma samples of humans exposed to TCE.
23732299	Anti-proliferative actions of N'-desmethylsorafenib in human breast cancer cells.	The multi-kinase inhibitor sorafenib is used for the treatment of renal and hepatic carcinomas and is undergoing evaluation for treatment of breast cancer in combination with other agents. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 converts sorafenib to multiple metabolites that have been detected in patient plasma. However, recent clinical findings suggest that combination therapy may elicit inhibitory pharmacokinetic interactions involving sorafenib that increase toxicity. While sorafenib N-oxide is an active metabolite, information on the anti-tumor actions of other metabolites is unavailable. The present study evaluated the actions of sorafenib and its five major metabolites in human breast cancer cell lines. All agents, with the exception of N'-hydroxymethylsorafenib N-oxide, decreased ATP formation in four breast cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-468, MCF-7 and T-47D). Prolonged treatment of MDA-MB-231 cells with N'-desmethylsorafenib, N'-desmethylsorafenib N-oxide and sorafenib (10 M, 72 h) produced small increases in caspase-3 activity to 128-139% of control. Sorafenib and its metabolites, again with the exception of N'-hydroxymethylsorafenib N-oxide, impaired MEK/ERK signaling in MDA-MB-231 cells and modulated the expression of cyclin D1 and myeloid cell leukemia sequence-1, which regulate cell viability. When coadministered with doxorubicin (0.5 or 1 M), sorafenib and N'-desmethylsorafenib (25 M) produced greater effects on ATP production than either treatment alone. Thus, it emerges that, by targeting the MEK/ERK pathway, multiple sorafenib metabolites may contribute to the actions of sorafenib in breast cancer. Because N'-desmethylsorafenib is not extensively metabolized and does not inhibit major hepatic CYPs, this metabolite may have a lower propensity to precipitate pharmacokinetic drug interactions than sorafenib.
23831704	High sensitive assay employing column switching chromatography to enable simultaneous quantification of an amide prodrug of gemcitabine (LY2334737), gemcitabine, and its metabolite dFdU in human plasma by LC-MS/MS.	In this study we report a high sensitive method for the simultaneous analysis of LY2334737 (2'-deoxy-2',2'-difluoro-N-(1-oxo-2-propylpentyl)-cytidine), an amide prodrug of gemcitabine (2', 2'-difluoro-deoxycytidine), along with its active drug gemcitabine and its major metabolite dFdU (2',2'-difluoro-deoxyuridine) by LC-MS/MS. Quantification of all three analytes within a single analysis was challenging because the physio-chemical properties of LY2334737 were significantly different from gemcitabine and dFdU and was accomplished by incorporating column-switching. The assay was fully validated to quantify LY2334737 from 0.1 to 100ng/mL, gemcitabine from 0.25 to 100ng/mL and dFdU from 1 to 1000ng/mL in order to cover the diverse concentration ranges expected in clinical samples. A 25-fold dilution was also validated to accommodate any samples outside this range. Overall, the assay had good accuracy (ranging from -7.0 to 1.2% relative error) and precision (ranging from 2.1 to 8.4% relative standard deviation). Extraction efficiency was greater than 80% for all three analytes and there were no matrix effects. Plasma samples were stable for 24h at room temperature, 660 days in frozen storage, and at least 4 freeze-thaw cycles, at both -20 and -70C. Data from clinical trials showed that plasma concentrations for LY2334737, gemcitabine, and dFdU were successfully quantified from a single LC-MS/MS analysis and that the assay ranges selected for the three analytes were appropriate and minimized the need for reanalysis.
7097505	Comparison of the absorption, excretion, and metabolism of suxibuzone and phenylbutazone in humans.	The absorption, excretion, and metabolism of a single oral dose of suxibuzone, a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, in healthy male volunteers were compared with those of phenylbutazone. After oral administration of either suxibuzone or phenylbutazone, phenylbutazone, oxyphenbutazone, and gamma-hydroxyphenylbutazone were found in the plasma; phenylbutazone was the main metabolite of suxibuzone and phenylbutazone. In the urine, p-gamma-dihydroxyphenylbutazone and several glucuronide conjugates also were found. Spectrometric and/or enzymatic analysis showed that these glucuronide conjugates were suxibuzone glucuronide, 4-hydroxymethylphenylbutazone glucuronide, 4-hydroxymethyloxyphenbutazone glucuronide, oxyphenbutazone glucuronide, and phenylbutazone glucuronides (two types: O-glucuronide and C-4-glucuroxide) after suxibuzone administration, and oxyphenbutazone glucuronide and phenylbutazone glucuronide after phenylbutazone administration. The conjugates specific to suxibuzone administration, suxibuzone glucuronide, 4-hydroxymethylphenylbutazone glucuronide, and 4-hydroxymethyloxyphenbutazone glucuronide, were excreted in the first 6 hr urine. These findings and the pharmacokinetics of these metabolites in the plasma and urine show that suxibuzone is a prodrug of phenylbutazone.
7618347	Role of hepatic metabolism in the bioactivation and detoxication of amodiaquine.	1. The hepatic metabolism of the antimalarial drug amodiaquine was investigated in order to gain further insight into the postulated metabolic causation of the hepatotoxicity, which restricts the use of the drug. After intraportal (i.p.) administration (54 mumol/kg) to the anaesthetized rat, the drug was excreted in bile (23 +/- 3% dose over 5 h; mean +/- SD, n = 6) primarily as thioether conjugates. 2. After i.p. administration, 20% of the dose was excreted into urine over 24 h as parent compound and products of N-dealkylation and oxidative deamination. Desethylamodiaquine accumulated in liver, but was not a substrate for bioactivation as measured by biliary elimination of a glutathione adduct. 3. Prior administration of ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450, reduced biliary excretion by 50% and effected a corresponding decrease in the amount of drug irreversibly bound to liver proteins. This indicated a role for P450 in the bioactivation of amodiaquine to a reactive metabolite that conjugates with glutathione and protein. 4. De-ethylation and irreversible binding were observed in vitro using male rat liver microsomes, and were again inhibited by ketoconazole. However, no such binding was observed with human (six individuals) hepatic microsomes despite extensive turnover of amodiaquine to desethylamodiaquine. 5. Amodiaquine quinoneimine underwent rapid reduction in the presence of either human or rat liver microsomes. Therefore in vitro studies may underestimate the bioactivation of amodiaquine in vivo. These data indicate that the extent of protein adduct formation in the liver will depend on the relative rates of oxidation of amodiaquine and reduction of its quinoneimine. This in turn may be a predisposing factor in the idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity associated with amodiaquine. 6. Substitution of a fluorine for the phenolic hydroxyl group in amodiaquine blocked bioactivation of the drug in vivo. Insertion of an N-hydroxyethyl function enabled partial clearance of amodiaquine and its deshydroxyfluoro analogue via O-glucuronidation and altered the balance between phase I oxidation and direct phase II conjugation of amodiaquine.
7887987	Expression of functional cytochrome P4501A1 in human embryonic hepatic tissues during organogenesis.	Investigations with chemical inhibitors and with inhibitory antibodies specific for cytochrome P4501A-catalyzed ethoxyresorufin (ethoxyphenoxazone) O-deethylation and 2-acetylaminofluorene (N-2-fluorenylacetamide) ring hydroxylation indicated that cytochrome(s) P450 of the 1A subfamily was functionally expressed in human embryonic hepatic tissues at very early stages (days 50-60) of gestation. Lack of detectable capacity of hepatic microsomal enzymes to catalyze either N-hydroxylation of 2-acetylaminofluorene or O-demethylation of methoxyresorufin indicated that functional cytochrome P4501A2 is expressed minimally or negligibly in human embryonic hepatic tissues. By contrast, profound inhibition of the ring hydroxylation of 2-acetylaminofluorene and of the O-deethylation of ethoxyresorufin by 7,8-benzoflavone as well as by anti-cytochrome P4501A1 antibodies indicated the presence of significant levels of functional cytochrome P4501A1 in hepatic microsomes of human embryos. Using the reverse transcriptase-linked polymerase chain reaction with specific oligonucleotide primers, we also detected significant expression of cytochrome P4501A1 mRNA in human embryonic livers. Polymerase chain reaction amplification, cloning and sequencing of the corresponding cDNA provided evidence that the cytochrome P4501A1 mRNA expressed in human embryonic tissues was identical to that expressed in adult human tissues. The results of the study have important implications in terms of the embryotoxic effects of chemicals that are known to be substrates, inhibitors or inducers of cytochrome P4501A1 and to which pregnant women are exposed.
8149470	Metabolic activation of N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl by cultured human breast epithelial cell line MCF 10A.	Metabolism and nucleic acid binding of the mammary gland carcinogen N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl (N-OH-AABP) was investigated using the human mammary epithelial cell line MCF 10A. Chromatographic analysis of the ethyl acetate extract of the media from cultured MCF 10A after 24 h exposure to N-OH-AABP revealed the formation of two metabolites, 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) and 4-acetylaminobiphenyl (AABP). Incubation of [3H]N-OH-AABP with calf thymus DNA in the presence of the cytosols or microsomes revealed a binding of 0.21 and 2.36 nmol/mg DNA/mg protein respectively. In contrast to cytosol-mediated binding, the microsome-mediated binding of [3H]N-OH-AABP to DNA was inhibited by paraoxon. Furthermore, exogenous addition of non-labelled N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-ABP) to the incubation mixture blocked the binding of [3H]N-OH-AABP to DNA, suggesting that the metabolic activation process involves inter-molecular transacetylation. Cytosols from MCF 10A also catalyzed acetyl coenzyme A (AcCoA)-dependent binding of [3H]N-OH-ABP to DNA; the amount of binding was 0.51 nmol/mg DNA/mg protein. HPLC of the DNA hydrolysate obtained after incubation of [3H]N-OH-AABP and [3H]N-OH-ABP with the MCF 10A microsomes and cytosols showed N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (dG-ABP) as the primary adduct, based on the mobility of the radioactive peak in comparison with the synthetic standard. 32P-postlabeling of adducted DNA obtained on incubation with N-OH-ABP or N-OH-AABP showed similar adduct profiles, with the major adduct corresponding with the bisphospho derivative of dG-ABP and a minor adduct corresponding with N-(deoxyadenosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (dA-ABP). Additionally, the cellular DNA isolated from MCF 10A following exposure to N-OH-AABP also revealed a major spot corresponding with the dG-ABP derivative. These results suggest that the mammary gland carcinogen N-OH-AABP is activated to reactive electrophilic species in the target human mammary tissues by acetyl transferase(s) enzyme systems.
8236329	Direct quantitative digital autoradiography of testosterone metabolites in the pilosebaceous unit: an environmentally advantageous trace radioactive technology.	Androgen metabolism is one of the major keys for a better understanding of conditions such as androchronogenetic alopecia, acne, and other androgen-related skin disorders. This paper addresses the process by which testosterone metabolism leads to the following major androgens: androstenedione, dihydrotestosterone, 3 alpha- and 3 beta-androstanediol, androsterone, epiandrosterone, and androstanedione. Our report describes a methodology developed for the direct quantitative measurement from the silica gel plate of these metabolites. After detailing the chromatographic procedures to achieve the complete separation of the seven testosterone metabolites on a single plate, specifications are given for obtaining accurate measurements by 1) calibration of the radiodetectors and 2) internal and external standardization of samples and plates. Analytical criteria are discussed in terms of comparison of the level of sensitivity, reproducibility, and practicability obtained by both the linear analyzer and the direct digital autoradiograph. Signals as weak as 25 dpm were easily detected and calibration curves were obtained for the range of 50-500 dpm. For biological measurements the coefficients of variation do not exceed 10%. Given the difficulty of obtaining large amounts of microdissected subfractions of the pilosebaceous unit and the necessity of evaluating the complete pattern of testosterone transformed into its 3 alpha,3 beta-, 5 alpha-reduced and 17 beta-dehydrogenated secondary derivatives, digital autoradiography appears to be a powerful yet simple tool for studying androgen metabolism. In addition, this methodology offers an important environmental advantage: the high sensitivity of the detectors makes it possible to minimize the quantities of radioactive materials that must be handled or discarded.
8583359	Metabolism of beclamide after a single oral dose in man: quantitative studies.	A simple reverse phase HPLC assay is described for the determination of the anticonvulsant compound, beclamide and its 3- and 4-hydroxyphenyl metabolites in urine. Following oral administration of 1 g beclamide to a panel of healthy volunteers, less than 0.4% of the dose was excreted unchanged in the 24-h urine and unconjugated 3- and 4-hydroxyphenyl metabolites were not detected. Based on examination of the urine after incubation with beta-glucuronidase and aryl sulphatase, it was found that these hydroxyl metabolites were excreted as both glucuronide and sulphate conjugates. For each metabolite the glucuronide was the major excretory product (approximately 10:1). The 24-h excretion of the combined conjugated metabolites was 7% (for the 3-hydroxy metabolite) and 24% (for the 4-hydroxy metabolite) of the dose. Approximately 22% of the administered dose of beclamide was excreted as hippuric acid. In view of the simplicity of assay, beclamide may be a useful tool substance with which to examine factors influencing the xenobiotic metabolic pathways of benzene ring hydroxylation and glucuronide and sulphate conjugation in man.
8852708	Determination of opiates in urine by capillary electrophoresis.	A method for the separation of a mixture of opiates comprising pholcodine, 6-monoacetylmorphine, morphine, heroin, codeine and dihydrocodeine by capillary electrophoresis using a running buffer of 100 mM disodium hydrogenphosphate at pH 6 is described. The characteristics of an analytical method based on this separation for the determination of these drugs following extraction from urine and using levallorphan as internal standard are reported. Detection limits in the region of 10 ng cm-3 are achieved when using electrokinetic injection. A comparison is made of the sensitivity and reproducibility of electrokinetic and hydrodynamic injection for these drugs. Data are presented to show the results obtained when the proposed method is applied to urine spiked with all the above opiates and also to urine from a subject following consumption of dihydrocodeine and pholcodine. The concentrations found are compared with those obtained by LC.
8953164	Simultaneous determination of all-trans-, 13-cis- and 9-cis-retinoic acid, their 4-oxo metabolites and all-trans-retinol in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography.	All-trans-retinoic acid (all-trans-RA) and 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA), due to their effects on cell differentiation, proliferation and angiogenesis, improved treatment results in some malignancies. Pharmacokinetic studies of all-trans-RA and 13-cis-RA along with monitoring of retinoic acid metabolites may help to optimize retinoic acid therapy and to develop new effective strategies for the use of retinoic acids in cancer treatment. Therefore, we developed a HPLC method for the simultaneous determination in human plasma of the physiologically important retinoic acid isomers, all-trans-, 13-cis- and 9-cis-retinoic acid, their 4-oxo metabolites, 13-cis-4-oxoretinoic acid (13-cis-4-oxo-RA) and all-trans-4-oxoretinoic acid (all-trans-4-oxo-RA), and Vitamin A (all-trans-retinol). Analysis was performed on a silica gel column with UV detection at 350 nm using a binary multistep gradient composed of n-hexane, 2-propanol and glacial acetic acid. For liquid-liquid extraction a mixture of n-hexane, dichloromethane and 2-propanol was used. The limits of detection were 0.5 ng/ml for retinoic acids and 10 ng/ml for all-trans-retinol. The method showed good reproducibility for all components (within-day C.V.: 3.02-11.70%; day-to-day C.V.: 0.01-11.34%). Furthermore, 9-cis-4-oxoretinoic acid (9-cis-4-oxo-RA) is separated from all-trans-4-oxo-RA and 13-cis-4-oxo-RA. In case of clinical use of 9-cis-retinoic acid (9-cis-RA) the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of this retinoic acid isomer can also be examined.
8996531	Continuous intratumoral microdialysis during high-dose methotrexate therapy in a patient with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the femur: a case report.	We used a microdialysis technique to assay intratumoral methotrexate (MTX) levels during high-dose (12 g/m2 given as a 4-h infusion) therapy in a 43-year-old man with a malignant fibrous histiocytoma in the medial femoral condyle. Additional microdialysis probes were implanted in muscle tissue contralateral to the tumor and in an antecubital vein. Microdialysis was attempted during the initial two high-dose courses, but the two latter probes were removed at the start of the second treatment cycle due to leakage. No attempt to correct for microdialysis recovery was made. The intratumorally localized probe gave reproducible data on tumor MTX exposure of 9.3-14% of unbound systemic MTX. There was a close correlation between tumor and systemic levels for both MTX and its major extracellular metabolite 7-hydroxymethotrexate. Although limited to the study of MTX pharmacokinetics in a single subject, the experiment demonstrates that intratumoral microdialysis may provide data on tumor drug exposure, although of an indirect nature and dependent on the probe characteristics, the flow rate, and, possibly, the time after probe implantation. We propose that the application of microdialysis may prove useful for elucidation of the relationship between local drug exposure and the therapeutic response in normally inaccessible compartments during cancer pharmacotherapy.
9163700	Metabolic activation of aromatic amines by human pancreas.	Epidemiologic studies have suggested that aromatic amines (and nitroaromatic hydrocarbons) may be carcinogenic for human pancreas. Pancreatic tissues from 29 organ donors (13 smokers, 16 non-smokers) were examined for their ability to metabolize aromatic amines and other carcinogens. Microsomes showed no activity for cytochrome P450 (P450) 1A2-dependent N-oxidation of 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) or for the following activities (and associated P450s): aminopyrine N-demethylation and ethylmorphine N-demethylation (P450 3A4); ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (P450 1A1) and pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylation (P450 2B6); p-nitrophenol hydroxylation and N-nitrosodimethyl-amine N-demethylation (P450 2E1); lauric acid omega-hydroxylation (P450 4A1); and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl-1-butanol) (NNAL) and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) alpha-oxidation (P450 1A2, 2A6, 2D6). Antibodies were used to examine microsomal levels of P450 1A2, 2A6, 2C8/9/18/19, 2E1, 2D6, and 3A3/4/5/7 and epoxide hydrolase. Immunoblots detected only epoxide hydrolase at low levels; P450 levels were <1% of liver. Microsomal benzidine/prostaglandin hydroperoxidation activity was low. In pancreatic cytosols and microsomes, 4-nitrobiphenyl reductase activities were present at levels comparable to human liver. The O-acetyltransferase activity (AcCoA-dependent DNA-binding of [3H]N-hydroxy-ABP) of pancreatic cytosols was high, about twothirds the levels measured in human colon. Cytosols showed high activity for N-acetylation of p-aminobenzoic acid, but not of sulfamethazine, indicating that acetyltransferase-1 (NAT1) is predominantly expressed in this tissue. Cytosolic sulfotransferase was detected at low levels. Using 32P-post-labeling enhanced by butanol extraction, putative arylamine-DNA adducts were detected in most samples. Moreover, in eight of 29 DNA samples, a major adduct was observed that was chromatographically identical to the predominant ABP-DNA adduct, N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-ABP. These results are consistent with a hypothesis that aromatic amines and nitroaromatic hydrocarbons may be involved in the etiology of human pancreatic cancer.
8142308	Aromatization of 7 alpha-methyl-19-nortestosterone by human placental microsomes in vitro.	Part of the biological effects of testosterone (T) are mediated by its enzymatic reduction to 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or aromatization to estradiol (E2). 7 alpha-Methyl-19-nortestosterone (MENT) is a synthetic androgen that is considerably more potent than T. Previous studies have shown that MENT is not 5 alpha-reduced. The studies reported here were undertaken to determine whether MENT undergoes enzymatic aromatization in vitro. Human placental microsomes were used as the source of the aromatase. Radioactive or nonradioactive T or MENT was incubated with the microsomes in the presence of NADPH and the metabolites extracted out with ethyl ether. Following evaporation of ether, the residue was dissolved in benzene-petroleum ether and extracted with 0.4 N NaOH which selectively removes phenolic metabolites of the androgens. When either radioactive T or MENT was incubated with the aromatase in the presence of NADPH, there was a 20-fold increase in the amount of radioactivity extracted with NaOH. In contrast, if the incubation was carried out in the absence of NADPH or in the presence of R76713, an aromatase inhibitor, most of the radioactivity remained in the benzene-petroleum ether phase. To further identify the enzymatic reaction products, thin layer chromatography (TLC) was performed. The Rf value for MENT was 0.22 while that of the major reaction product was 0.34, which corresponded with the RF value of the estrogen, 7 alpha-methyl-estradiol (MeE2). This was further verified by using a second solvent system for the chromatographic separation. In an effort to ascertain whether the metabolites bind to estrogen receptors (ER), rat uterine cytosol was used. NaOH extracts of medium following incubation of nonradioactive MENT with microsomes showed competitive inhibition of [3H]E2 binding to rat uterine ER. Furthermore, after [3H]MENT was incubated with microsomes, the radioactive metabolite extracted in NaOH showed specific binding to the ER which could readily be displaced with E2 or MeE2. These results indicate that like T, MENT undergoes enzymatic aromatization.
22543979	Postmortem distribution of tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol.	Postmortem distribution concentrations of the pain medication tapentadol and its metabolite N-desmethyltapentadol are reported. Tapentadol (Nucynta) is a synthetic mu-opioid receptor agonist that also has norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor action. The laboratory received two cases. Case 1: a 19-year-old, morbidly obese male with sudden unexpected death. Toxicology results revealed tapentadol (femoral blood: 0.77 mg/L, liver: 1.65 mg/kg), N-desmethyltapentadol (femoral blood: 0.07 mg/L, liver: 0.19 mg/kg), diazepam (femoral blood: 0.04 mg/L), nordiazepam (femoral blood: 0.06 mg/L) and amiodarone (femoral blood: 5.30 mg/L). Case 2: a 60-year-old female who died from complications following hip replacement. Only tapentadol (femoral blood: 0.26 mg/L, liver: 0.52 mg/kg) was found in the toxicology results. Quantitative results of tapentadol/N-desmethyltapentadol were achieved using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in multiple reactions monitoring mode. This is the first known distribution study of tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol values in postmortem cases.
16520100	Sensitive fluorescence HPLC assay for AQ-13, a candidate aminoquinoline antimalarial, that also detects chloroquine and N-dealkylated metabolites.	A sensitive, specific and reproducible fluorescence high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay has been developed for the separate or simultaneous measurement of AQ-13 (a candidate 4-aminoquinoline antimalarial), chloroquine (CQ), and their metabolites in whole blood. After liquid-solid extraction using commercially available extraction cartridges, these two aminoquinolines (AQs) and their metabolites were separated on C18 (Xterra RP18) columns using a mobile phase containing 60% borate buffer (20 mM, pH 9.0) and 40% acetonitrile with isocratic elution at a flow-rate of 1.0 ml/min. The assay uses a biologically inactive 8-chloro-4-aminoquinoline (AQ-18) as its internal standard (IS). There is a linear relationship between the concentrations of these AQs and the peak area ratio (ratio between the peak area of the AQ or metabolite and the peak area of the IS) on the chromatogram. Linear calibration curves with correlation coefficients > or = 0.997 (r2 > or = 0.995, p < 0.001) were obtained for AQ-13, CQ and their N-dealkylated metabolites. Reproducibility of the assay was excellent with coefficients of variation (CVs) < or = 3.8% for AQ-13 and its metabolites, and < or =2.5% for CQ and its metabolites. The sensitivity of the assay is 5 nM using 1.0 ml of blood and a 20 microl injection volume, and can be increased by using 5.0 ml of blood with an injection volume of 40 microl.
1788979	Sulphation of hydroxybiphenyls in human tissues.	1. Sulphotransferase is an important detoxication pathway of hydroxybiphenyls and the kinetics of sulphotransferase activity were studied in human liver, ileum and colon mucosae, lung, kidney, urinary bladder mucosa and brain using 0-, m- and p-hydroxybiphenyl as substrates. 2. Sulphotransferase activity was detectable in all tissues studied, although it showed marked tissue-dependence. The rate of sulphation ranged greater than 100-fold in different tissues and the highest and lowest activities of sulphotransferase were found in liver and brain, respectively. 3. The Km of sulphotransferase was not tissue-dependent but was dependent on the isomer of hydroxybiphenyl. The Km varied over a 500-fold range and the highest and lowest values of Km were found with p-hydroxybiphenyl and m-hydroxybiphenyl, respectively.
21656223	Use of the H2AX assay for assessing the genotoxicity of bisphenol A and bisphenol F in human cell lines.	Bisphenol A (BPA) and bisphenol F (BPF) are widely used to manufacture plastics and epoxy resins. Both compounds have been shown to be present in the environment and are food contaminants, with, as a result, a low but chronic exposure of humans. However, the fate and possible bioactivation of these compounds at the level of human cell lines was not completely elucidated yet. In this study, we investigated the ability of human cells (intestinal cell line: LS174T, hepatoma cell line: HepG2, and renal cell line: ACHN) to biotransform BPA and BPF, and focused on the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of these two bisphenols, through the use of a novel and efficient genotoxic assay based on the detection of histone H2AX phosphorylation. BPA and BPF were extensively metabolized in HepG2 and LS174T cell lines, with stronger biotransformation capabilities in intestinal cells than observed in liver cells. Both cell lines produced the glucuronide as well as the sulfate conjugates of BPA. Conversely, the ACHN cell line was found to be devoid of any metabolic capabilities for the two examined bisphenols. Cytotoxicity was tested for BPA, BPF, as well as one metabolite of BPF produced in vivo in rat, namely dihydroxybenzophenone (DHB). In the three cell lines used, we observed similar ranges of toxicity, with DHB being weakly cytotoxic, BPF exhibiting an intermediary cytotoxicity, and BPA being the most cytotoxic compound tested. BPA and DHB were not found to be genotoxic, whatever the cell line examined. BPF was clearly genotoxic in HepG2 cells. These results demonstrate that some human cell lines extensively metabolize bisphenols and establish the genotoxic potential of bisphenol F.
18719240	The configuration of the 17-hydroxy group variably influences the glucuronidation of beta-estradiol and epiestradiol by human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.	The glucuronidation of 17beta-estradiol (beta-estradiol) and 17alpha-estradiol (epiestradiol) was studied to elucidate how the orientation of the 17-OH group affects conjugation at the 3-OH or the 17-OH of either diastereomer. Recombinant human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, and UGT1A10 conjugated one or both diastereomers, mainly at the 3-OH. The activity of UGT1A4 was low and unique because it was directed merely toward the 17-OH of both aglycones. UGT1A10 exhibited particularly high estradiol glucuronidation activity, the rate and affinity of which were significantly higher in the case of beta-estradiol than with epiestradiol. UGT1A9 did not catalyze estradiol glucuronidation, but UGT1A9-catalyzed scopoletin glucuronidation was competitively inhibited by beta-estradiol. UGT2B4, UGT2B7, and UGT2B17 exclusively conjugated the estradiols at the 17-OH position in a highly stereoselective fashion. UGT2B4 was specific for epiestradiol; UGT2B7 glucuronidated both diastereomers, with high affinity for epiestradiol, whereas UGT2B17 only glucuronidated beta-estradiol. UGT2B15 glucuronidated both estradiols at the 3-OH, with a strong preference for epiestradiol. Human UGT2A1 and UGT2A2 glucuronidated both diastereoisomers at both hydroxyl groups. Microsomal studies revealed that human liver mainly yielded epiestradiol 17-O-glucuronide, and human intestine primarily yielded beta-estradiol 3-O-glucuronide, whereas rat liver preferentially formed beta-estradiol 17-O-glucuronide. Of the three recombinant rat UGTs that were examined in this study, rUGT2B1 was specific for the 17-OH of beta-estradiol, rUGT2B2 did not catalyze estradiol glucuronidation, whereas rUGT2B3 exhibited high activity toward the 17-OH in both diastereoisomers. The results show that although many UGTs can catalyze estradiol glucuronidation, there are marked differences in their kinetics, regioselectivity, and stereoselectivity.
15540950	Identification of 14 quercetin phase II mono- and mixed conjugates and their formation by rat and human phase II in vitro model systems.	In this study, the HPLC, UV-vis, LC-MS, and 1H NMR characteristics of 14 different phase II mono- and mixed conjugates of quercetin were determined, providing a useful tool in the identification of quercetin phase II metabolite patterns in various biological systems. Using these data, the phase II metabolism of quercetin by different rat and human liver and intestine in vitro models, including cell lines, S9 samples, and hepatocytes, was investigated. A comparison of quercetin phase II metabolism between rat and human liver and intestinal cell lines, S9, and hepatocytes showed considerable variation in the nature and ratios of quercetin conjugate formation. It could be established that the intestine contributes significantly to the phase II metabolism of quercetin, especially to its sulfation, that organ-dependent phase II metabolism in rat and man differ significantly, and that human interindividual variation is higher for quercetin sulfation than for glucuronidation or methylation. Furthermore, quercetin conjugation by different in vitro models from corresponding origins may differ significantly. The identification of the various mono- and mixed quercetin phase II conjugates revealed significant differences in phase II conjugation by a variety of in vitro models and led to the conclusion that none of the in vitro models converted quercetin to a phase II metabolite mixture similar to the in vivo plasma metabolite pattern of quercetin. Altogether, the identification of a wide range of phase II metabolites of quercetin as presented in this study allows the determination of quercetin phase II biotransformation patterns and opens the way for a better-funded assessment of the biological activity of quercetin in a variety of biological systems.
18192686	Soy isoflavones decrease the catechol-O-methyltransferase-mediated inactivation of 4-hydroxyestradiol in cultured MCF-7 cells.	The tissue concentrations of the female sex hormone 17beta-estradiol (E2) and its reactive catechol metabolites such as 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-HO-E2) play important roles in hormonal carcinogenesis. They are influenced by the activity of local enzymes involved in the metabolic activation and inactivation of E2. In the mammary gland, catechol estrogens are predominately inactivated by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Food supplements containing the soy isoflavones genistein and daidzein are consumed because they are believed to protect from breast cancer; however, this proposed benefit is controversial. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of soy isoflavones on the gene expression and activity of COMT in cultured human mammary adenocarcinoma MCF-7 cells. Levels of COMT messenger RNA (mRNA) were determined by reverse transcription/competitive polymerase chain reaction and COMT activity was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of the methylation products of both the model substrate quercetin and the physiological relevant substrate 4-HO-E2. Our study demonstrates for the first time that soy isoflavones at hormonally active concentrations cause a significant reduction of both COMT mRNA levels and COMT activity as well as of the methylation of 4-HO-E2. Experiments using the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist ICI 182,780 support a role of the ER in the isoflavone-induced down-regulation of COMT expression. Thus, this study not only demonstrates that hormonally active concentrations of soy isoflavones inhibit the detoxification of catechols in this human breast cancer cell line but also implies that diet might influence COMT activity to a greater extent than heretofore recognized.
17700594	Influence of UGT1A9 intronic I399C>T polymorphism on SN-38 glucuronidation in Asian cancer patients.	Genetic polymorphisms in hepatically expressed UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 contribute to the interindividual variability i-n irinotecan disposition and toxicity. We screened UGT1A1 (UGT1A1*60, g.-3140G>A, UGT1A1*28 and UGT1A1*6) and UGT1A9 (g.-118(T)(9>10) and I399C>T) genes for polymorphic variants in the promoter and coding regions, and the genotypic effect of UGT1A9 I399C>T polymorphism on irinotecan disposition in Asian cancer patients was investigated. Blood samples were collected from 45 patients after administration of irinotecan as a 90 min intravenous infusion of 375 mg/m(2) once in every 3 weeks. Genotypic-phenotypic correlates showed that cancer patients heterozygous or homozygous for the I399C>T allele had approximately 2-fold lower systemic exposure to SN-38 (P<0.05) and a trend towards a higher relative extent of glucuronidation (REG) of SN-38 (P>0.05). UGT1A1-1A9 diplotype analysis showed that patients harbouring the H1/H2 (TG6GT(10)T/GG6GT(9)C) diplotype had 2.4-fold lower systemic exposure to SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G) compared with patients harbouring the H1/H5 (TG6GT(10)T/GG6GT(10)C) diplotype (P=0.025). In conclusion, this in vivo study supports the in vitro findings of Girard et al. and suggests that the UGT1A9 I399C>T variant may be an important glucuronidating allele affecting the pharmacokinetics of SN-38 and SN-38G in Asian cancer patients receiving irinotecan chemotherapy.
23019161	Characterization of protein adducts formed by toxic alkaloids by nano-scale liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry.	Betel quid chewing is associated with cytotoxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity in diseases such as oral cancer, liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and diabetes mellitus. Arecoline and arecaidine, which are the main alkaloids in the areca nut, are potential exposure biomarkers in habitual betel quid users. This study developed a method of detecting arecoline- and arecaidine-protein adducts by mass spectrometry (MS). First, bovine serum albumin was used to predict and confirm the binding sites of proteins modified by arecoline or arecaidine. Cells were then treated with arecoline to identify new protein adducts after cellular metabolic processing. Finally, human plasma was used to model long-term exposure to arecoline and arecaidine. Following isolation proteins were tryspin digested. The peptides afforded were separated and analyzed by nano-scale liquid chromatography with MS using an LTQ Orbitrap mass spectrometer. The experimental findings showed that cysteine is the predominant amino acid in protein adduct formation. The goal of this study was to establish a screening platform for identifying novel protein adducts that form covalent bonds with arecoline or arecaidine. Use of this strategy to survey new protein-toxic adducts may help to identify novel biomarkers of betel nut exposure.
12920164	Comparative studies on the cytochrome p450-associated metabolism and interaction potential of selegiline between human liver-derived in vitro systems.	Selegiline was used as a model compound in a project aimed at comparing, evaluating, and integrating different in vitro approaches for the prediction of cytochrome p450 (p450)-catalyzed hepatic drug metabolism in humans (EUROCYP). Metabolic predictions were generated using homology modeling, cDNA-expressed p450 enzymes, human liver microsomes, primary cultured human hepatocytes, and precision-cut human liver slices. All of the in vitro systems correctly indicated the formation of two dealkylated metabolites, desmethylselegiline and methamphetamine. The metabolic instability of selegiline was demonstrated by all of the in vitro systems studied. Estimates of clearance varied from 16 l/h to 223 l/h. With the exception of one approach, all systems underpredicted the in vivo clearance in humans (236 l/h). Despite this, all approaches successfully classified selegiline as a high clearance compound. Homology modeling suggested the participation of CYP2B6 in the demethylation of selegiline and of CYP2D6 in the depropargylation of the drug. Studies with recombinant expressed enzymes and with human hepatic microsomal fraction supported the involvement of CYP2B6 but not of CYP2D6. These techniques also suggested the involvement of CYP1A2, CYP2C8, and CYP2C19 in the biotransformation of selegiline. In vitro, CYP2B6 was the most active form of p450 involved in selegiline metabolism. Metabolism by several enzymes operating in parallel implies a low interaction potential for the drug. None of the techniques alone was able to predict all aspects of the metabolic and kinetic behavior of selegiline in vivo. However, when used as an integrated package, all significant characteristics were predictable.
17443647	In vitro LC-MS cocktail assays to simultaneously determine human cytochrome P450 activities.	Using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), two sensitive cocktail assays were developed, one to simultaneously determine activities of the cytochrome P450 enzymes, CYP1A2 (phenacitin), 2B6 (bupropion), 2C8 (amodiaquine) and 2C19 (omperazole), and the other to determine simultaneously activities of CYP3A4/5 (testosterone), 2C9 (tolbutamide) and 2D6 (dextromethorphan). These cocktail assays are sensitive, require only a small amount of microsomal protein, employ selective and high turnover CYP substrates and do not require post-incubation extraction. In each of these cocktails, no interactions were observed between the substrates. Combining the two cocktails into a single cocktail resulted in significant inhibition of CYP2D6 by amiodiaquine. These assays were used successfully to determine induction of CYP enzymes in microsomes isolated from human hepatocytes treated (72 h) with or without the prototypic inducer, rifampin.
9182842	Influence of age on toremifene pharmacokinetics.	Toremifene pharmacokinetics were compared in ten healthy young men (< 33 years) and elderly women (< 65 years). A single oral 120-mg dose of toremifene was given after an overnight fast and blood samples were collected over 28 days. Serum levels of the parent drug and the metabolites were determined; appropriate pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated and statistically evaluated. Toremifene peak concentrations (average 640 ng/ml) were achieved at 3.5 h. The area under the curve (AUC) and the apparent oral clearance were comparable in the young and elderly subjects. The half-life was prolonged (4.2 versus 7.2 days) and the apparent volume of distribution was increased (457 versus 627 1) in the elderly. The peak concentration of the main metabolite N-demethyltoremifene was lower (159 versus 233 ng/ml) and the half-life was prolonged (8.3 versus 19.1 days) in the elderly subjects, but the AUC values were comparable. The results suggest that toremifene is distributed more widely in the elderly but that its clearance is unaffected by age. It is concluded that the dosage requirement of the drug is unlikely to differ between young and elderly subjects.
2026697	Study of human urinary metabolism of fenfluramine using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	The metabolism of (+/-)fenfluramine, 1-(m-trifluoromethylphenyl)-2-N-ethylpropane, an anoretic agent, was investigated in humans. The analysis method was based on the use of ion-exchange resin extraction, solid-phase purification on the Bond Elut1M C8 cartridge, gradient elution high-performance liquid chromatography, enzymic hydrolysis of conjugates, further purification by Bond Elut C8 cartridge, derivatisation and capillary column gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). After administration of a 1 mg kg-1 oral dose, four metabolites plus unchanged fenfluramine were recovered in the 0-24 h urine from human volunteers and characterised by GC-MS. In the conjugated form, fenfluramine, norfenfluramine and m-trifluoromethylhippuric acid were detected by GC-MS. In the aglycone form, the major metabolite, 1-(m-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2-propane diol (fenfluramine diol), was monitored using GC-MS. The mass spectral characteristics of the m-trifluoromethylhippuric acid methyl ester, 1-(m-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2-propane ditrifluoracetate derivatives and the norfenfluramine and fenfluramine free base obtained under electron-impact ionization are presented. The metabolism of fenfluramine is discussed including a metabolic pathway in man accounting for the formation of its biotransformation products.
8948090	Effects of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin on their N-demethylation by rat and human cytochrome P450 enzymes.	1. The effects of treatment of rat with roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin as well as other chemicals including typical cytochrome P450 inducers were examined in rat and human liver microsomes. 2. Erythromycin and troleandomycin but not roxithromycin caused slight increases in CYP3A1 levels and the N-demethylation of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin and oxidation of nifedipine in rat, but none of these chemicals induced significantly CYP2B1 levels or benzphetamine N-demethylation activities. 3. Dexamethasone and pregnenolone 16 alpha-carbonitrile induced CYP3A1 levels and N-demethylation of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin but not of benzphetamine, in rat liver microsomes. Treatment of rat with phenobarbital caused increases in both CYP2B1 and 3A1 levels and all of the N-demethylation activities examined. Phenytoin and metyrapone produced increases in contents of 2B1 and activities of benzphetamine N-demethylation as well as of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin, although these two inducers did not induce 3A1 protein significantly. 4. In man, a liver sample that was high in CYP3A4 and nifedipine oxidation activity was found to be the most active in N-demethylation activities towards these substrates examined. In addition, recombinant 3A4 catalysed very efficiently the N-demethylation of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin in reconstituted monooxygenase systems. 5. These data suggest that erythromycin and troleandomycin, but not roxithromycin, were able to induce CYP3A1 in rat liver microsomes, and that N-demethylation of roxithromycin, erythromycin and troleandomycin were catalysed mainly by 3A1 (and partly by 2B1) in rat and by 3A4 in man.
15286088	Influence of genetic variants in UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 on the in vivo glucuronidation of SN-38.	The uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 and 1A9 isoforms are involved in the phase II biotransformation of the irinotecan metabolite, SN-38. Recently, several variants in the UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 genes have been described with altered functionality in vitro. The aim of this study was to evaluate the functional consequence of the UGT1A1(TA)(7)TAA (UGT1A1(*)28), UGT1A9 766G>A (D256N; UGT1A9(*)5), and UGT1A9 98T>C (M33T; UGT1A9(*)3) variants in Caucasian patients treated with irinotecan. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed after the first course of irinotecan in 47 males and 47 females. The mean (SD) area under the curves (AUCs) of irinotecan and SN-38 were 20,348 +/- 6466 ng x h/mL and 629 +/- 370 ng x h/mL, respectively, which is in line with earlier findings. For UGT1A9(*)5,novariant alleles were observed, whereas for UGT1A9(*)3, 1 patient with the variant allele was found (allele frequency, 0.633%). The distribution of the UGT1A1(*)28 variant showed 44 wild-type patients (Wt), 37 heterozygotes (Het), and 5 homozygotes (Var). The median AUC ratio of SN-38G to SN-38 was significantly reduced in carriers of the variant UGT1A1(*)28 allele (7.00 [Wt] vs. 6.26 [Het] vs. 2.51 [Var]; p =.022). It is concluded that UGT1A9 functional variants are rare in Caucasians and likely to be clinically insignificant in irinotecan regimens. Screening for the UGT1A1(*)28 polymorphism may identify patients with altered SN-38 pharmacokinetics.
22207054	Species differences in tissue distribution and enzyme activities of arylacetamide deacetylase in human, rat, and mouse.	Human arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC) is a major esterase responsible for the hydrolysis of clinical drugs such as flutamide, phenacetin, and rifampicin. Thus, AADAC is considered to be a relevant enzyme in preclinical drug development, but there is little information about species differences with AADAC. This study investigated the species differences in the tissue distribution and enzyme activities of AADAC. In human, AADAC mRNA was highly expressed in liver and the gastrointestinal tract, followed by bladder. In rat and mouse, AADAC mRNA was expressed in liver at the highest level, followed by the gastrointestinal tract and kidney. The expression levels in rat tissues were approximately 7- and 10-fold lower than those in human and mouse tissues, respectively. To compare the catalytic efficiency of AADAC among three species, each recombinant AADAC was constructed, and enzyme activities were evaluated by normalizing with the expression levels of AADAC. Flutamide and phenacetin hydrolase activities were detected by the recombinant AADAC of all species. In flutamide hydrolysis, liver microsomes of all species showed similar catalytic efficiencies, despite the lower AADAC mRNA expression in rat liver. In phenacetin hydrolysis, rat liver microsomes showed approximately 4- to 6.5-fold lower activity than human and mouse liver microsomes. High rifampicin hydrolase activity was detected only by recombinant human AADAC and human liver and jejunum microsomes. Taken together, the results of this study clarified the species differences in the tissue distribution and enzyme activities of AADAC and facilitate our understanding of species differences in drug hydrolysis.
20400649	Distribution of bupivacaine enantiomers and lidocaine and its metabolite in the placental intervillous space and in the different maternal and fetal compartments in term pregnant women.	The aim of this study is to determine the concentrations of lidocaine and its metabolite, monoethylglycine xylidide (MEGX), and of the enantiomers of bupivacaine in maternal and fetal compartments. Ten healthy pregnant women were submitted to epidural anesthesia. Drug concentrations were determined in the maternal vein, fetal umbilical artery and vein, and the placental intervillous space. The highest concentrations of the bupivacaine enantiomers lidocaine and of lidocaine and of its MEGX metabolite were detected in maternal plasma and in the placental intervillous space. The placental transfer was 33% for the (+)-(R)-bupivacaine enantiomer and 31% for the (-)-(S)-bupivacaine enantiomer. For lidocaine and its MEGX metabolite, respective placental transfers were 60% and 43%. Lidocaine concentration in the fetal umbilical vein was 1.46 times higher than in the fetal umbilical artery. The highest concentrations of lidocaine and its metabolite and of the enantiomers of bupivacaine were detected in the placental intervillous space. The higher lidocaine concentrations in the fetal umbilical vein than in the fetal umbilical artery suggest that there was tissue uptake of the drug or drug metabolization by the fetus.
12386646	The impact of the CYP2D6 polymorphism on haloperidol pharmacokinetics and on the outcome of haloperidol treatment.	The genetically polymorphic enzyme cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 contributes to the biotransformation of the antipsychotic drug haloperidol. The impact of the polymorphism on haloperidol pharmacokinetics, adverse events, and efficacy was prospectively evaluated under naturalistic conditions in 172 unselected psychiatric inpatients with acute psychotic symptoms. Serum trough levels of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol of patients receiving clinically adjusted doses were analyzed on days 3, 14, and 28 after hospital admission. Adverse events such as extrapyramidal symptoms were assessed by standardized rating scales. Efficacy was documented by recording the change in positive and negative schizophrenic symptoms. These parameters were correlated with the CYP2D6 genotype determined by polymerase chain reaction analysis for alleles *1 to *15 and *17. The serum concentrations showed wide interindividual variation. Reduced haloperidol trough levels and haloperidol total clearance correlated significantly with the number of active CYP2D6 genes. In addition, body weight and smoking had significant effects on haloperidol kinetics, whereas age, gender, and comedication showed only slight effects. The ratings for pseudoparkinsonism were significantly higher in poor metabolizers of substrates of CYP2D6. On the other hand, there was a trend toward lower therapeutic efficacy with increasing number of active CYP2D6 genes. Treatment with haloperidol should be avoided in extremely slow and extremely rapid metabolizers of CYP2D6 substrates. Both genotyping and blood concentration measurement explained only a fraction of the adverse events; about 20 patients would have to be genotyped to achieve a significant benefit in 1 patient. It is interesting that genotyping was at least as good a predictor of adverse events as the measured drug concentrations.
20166197	Preclinical pharmacokinetics and in vitro metabolism of BMS-690514, a potent inhibitor of EGFR and VEGFR2.	BMS-690514, a potent inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) 1 (EGFR), 2, and 4, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) 1-3, is currently under investigation as an oral agent for the treatment of solid tumors. In vitro and in vivo studies were conducted to characterize the pharmacokinetics and metabolism. Through integration of in vitro and in vivo pharmacokinetic data and antitumor efficacy in nude mice, human pharmacokinetics and efficacious doses were projected for BMS-690514. The oral bioavailability of BMS-690514 was 78% in mice, approximately 100% in rats, 8% in monkeys, and 29% in dogs. The low oral bioavailability in monkeys could be attributed to high systemic clearance in that species, which was also consistent with predicted clearance using in vitro data from monkey liver microsomes. Permeability of BMS-690514 in Caco-2 cells was in the intermediate range with a moderate potential to be a P-gp substrate. Experiments using recombinant human CYP enzymes and human liver microsomes suggested that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are likely to play a key role in the metabolic clearance of BMS-690514; in addition, direct glucuronidation of BMS-690514 was also observed in human hepatocytes. BMS-690514 was able to cross the blood-brain barrier with a brain-to-plasma ratio of approximately 1. The preclinical ADME properties of BMS-690514 suggest good oral bioavailability in humans and metabolism by multiple pathways including oxidation and glucuronidation. Based on the efficacious AUC in nude mice and predicted human pharmacokinetics, the human efficacious QD dose is predicted to be in the range of 100-200 mg.
9251723	The role of glutathione conjugation in the development of kidney tumours in rats exposed to trichloroethylene.	Trichloroethylene is metabolised to a very minor extent (< 0.01% of the dose) by conjugation with glutathione, a metabolic pathway which leads to the formation of S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), a bacterial mutagen and nephrotoxin activated by the renal enzyme beta-lyase. The role of this metabolic pathway in the development of the nephrotoxicity and subsequent tumour formation seen in rats exposed to trichloroethylene has been evaluated. The pathway has been assessed quantitatively in vivo in rats, and in rats, mice and humans in vitro. Trichloroethylene was found to be a very weak nephrotoxin. There was no evidence of morphological change in the kidneys and only small increases in biochemical markers of kidney damage in rats dosed with 2000 mg/kg trichloroethylene by gavage for 42 days. N-acetyl-S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine was detected in the urine of rats dosed with 500 and 2000 mg/kg trichloroethylene for up to 10 days at levels equivalent to 0.001-0.008% of the dose. In vitro, the rate of conjugation of trichloroethylene with glutathione in the liver was higher in the mouse, 2.5 pmol/min per mg protein, than the rat, 1.6 pmol/min per mg protein, and in human liver the rates were extremely low, 0.02-0.37 pmol/min per mg protein. Comparisons of the metabolism of DCVC by renal beta-lyase and N-acetyl transferase showed that metabolism by N-acetyl transferase was two orders of magnitude greater than that by beta-lyase and that beta-lyase activity in rat kidney was 11-fold greater than that in human kidney. When the nephrotoxicity of DCVC was compared in rats and mice, the mouse was found to be 5-10 fold more sensitive than the rat. The no effect level in the rat was 10 mg/kg, a dose which is three orders of magnitude higher than the amount of DCVC formed from trichloroethylene in vivo. The lack of correlation between metabolism by this pathway and the rat specific tumours, together with questions concerning the potency of DCVC at the levels formed from trichloroethylene, suggests that DCVC may not be involved in the renal toxicity and subsequent tumour development seen in rats and that further evaluation of the mechanism(s) involved in the nephrotoxic response is warranted.
15496647	Oxcarbazepine pharmacokinetics and tolerability in children with inadequately controlled epilepsy.	This two-part, open-label study evaluated the pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of oxcarbazepine as combination therapy in 112 children 2 to 12 years old with inadequately controlled epilepsy. Part I was a pharmacokinetic study in children stratified by age (2-5 years and 6-12 years) and randomized to receive a single oxcarbazepine dose of 5 mg/kg or 15 mg/kg. Mean specific AUC and t(1/2) values of the active metabolite (MHD) were approximately 30% lower in younger children compared with older children, regardless of dose. Part II was a 4-month safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic study in which children received oxcarbazepine doses of 11 to 68 mg/kg/day. The mean specific oxcarbazepine daily dose was 38% higher in younger children compared with older children. Similarly, mean trough plasma MHD concentrations were 34% lower in younger children. Six (5%) children discontinued due to adverse events. Oxcarbazepine was safe and well tolerated. Younger children require higher oxcarbazepine doses because of rapid clearance.
23609023	Prescription opioids. I. Metabolism and excretion patterns of oxycodone in urine following controlled single dose administration.	The ongoing epidemic of prescription opioid abuse in the United States has prompted interest in semi-synthetic opioids in the federal workplace drug testing program. This study characterized the metabolism and disposition of oxycodone (OC) in human urine. Twelve healthy adults were administered a single oral 20 mg dose of OC in a controlled clinical setting. Urine specimens were collected at timed intervals up to 52 h and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (limit of quantitation: 50 ng/mL) for OC, oxymorphone (OM), noroxycodone (NOC) and noroxymorphone (NOM) with and without enzymatic hydrolysis. OC and NOC appeared in urine within 2 h, followed by OM and NOM. Peak concentrations of OC and metabolites occurred between 3 and 19 h. Mean peak concentrations in hydrolyzed urine were in the following order: NOC > OC > OM > NOM. Only OM appeared to be excreted extensively as a conjugated metabolite. OC concentrations declined more quickly than NOC and OM. At a cutoff concentration of 50 ng/mL, detection times were approximately 30 h for OC and 40 h for NOC and OM. Some specimens did not contain OC, but most contained NOC, thereby facilitating interpretation that OC was the administered drug; however, five specimens contained only OM. These data provide information that should facilitate the selection of appropriate test parameters for OC in urine and assist in the interpretation of test results.
15100180	Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of lumiracoxib in healthy male subjects.	Lumiracoxib (Prexige; 2-[(2-fluoro-6-chlorophenyl)amino]-5-methyl-benzeneacetic acid) is a novel, chemically distinct cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitor, which has been developed for the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and acute pain. The absorption, metabolism, disposition, and mass balance of [14C]lumiracoxib were investigated in four healthy male subjects after a single 400-mg oral dose. Serial blood and complete urine and feces were collected for 168 h postdose. Lumiracoxib was rapidly absorbed, achieving mean plasma concentrations >1 microg/ml within 1 h of dosing. Unchanged drug in plasma accounted for 81 to 91% of radioactivity up to 2.5 h postdose, suggesting a modest first-pass effect; unchanged drug was the major circulating component in plasma, accounting for approximately 43% of the AUC(0 to 24 h). The terminal half-life of lumiracoxib in plasma was 6.5 h. Major plasma metabolites were the 5-carboxy, 4'-hydroxy, and 4'-hydroxy-5-carboxy derivatives. Excretion involved both renal (54.1%) and fecal (42.7%) routes, and dose recovery was almost complete (96.8%). Lumiracoxib was extensively metabolized before excretion, with little unchanged drug in urine (3.3% of dose) or feces (2.0% of dose). The major metabolic pathways of lumiracoxib were oxidation of the 5-methyl group and hydroxylation of the dihaloaromatic ring. Glucuronic acid conjugates of lumiracoxib metabolites (and to a minor extent lumiracoxib itself) were identified, although there was no evidence of cysteine, mercapturic acid, or glutathione conjugates. In summary, orally administered lumiracoxib is rapidly absorbed and undergoes extensive metabolism before excretion via urine and feces, with no evidence of formation of potentially reactive metabolites.
15797571	Achiral-chiral LC/LC-MS/MS coupling for determination of chiral discrimination effects in phenprocoumon metabolism.	Many physiological processes show a high degree of stereoselectivity, including the metabolism of xenobiotics as catalyzed by cytochrome P450 enzymes. An analysis of these chiral discrimination effects in drug metabolism is essential for an in-depth understanding of metabolic pathways that differ between enantiomers of a given chiral drug or metabolite thereof. Achiral chromatographic separation and structural identification followed by chiral analysis of metabolites from blood specimens usually requires a time-consuming multistage analytical technique. In an effort to optimize such a complicated analytical scheme, a novel two-dimensional online achiral-chiral liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/LC-MS/MS) coupling method was developed by using a peak parking technique in combination with a makeup flow system. Metabolites were separated in the first dimension using a C18 reversed-phase system. A makeup eluent of water/methanol (95/5) was split into the flow before storing the metabolites separately on chiral cartridges. Subsequently, the metabolite enantiomers were eluted backward onto the analytical chiral column and separated, and the ratio of enantiomers was determined. The method was successfully validated with respect to limit of detection, linearity, intra- and interday accuracy, and precision. In the course of a human volunteer study investigating the influence of CYP (cytochrome) 2C9 genetic polymorphism on phenprocoumon (PPC) metabolism, we used this new two-dimensional online analytical technique for the analysis of PPC metabolites in plasma. The enantiomeric forms of 4'-, 6-, and 7-hydroxy-PPC metabolites as well as two novel metabolites were identified, and the ratio of the enantiomers was calculated. We found that the enantiomeric ratio for the different metabolites in the plasma sample of each measured individual differs markedly from a nearly 100% chiral discrimination for the two new putative metabolites. This new analytical coupling method possesses general utility in the analysis of chiral discrimination effects, particularly as it relates to pharmacokinetics and dynamics, a scientific field that is rapidly becoming an area of concern and interest.
12388671	In vitro stability and in vivo pharmacokinetic studies of a model opioid peptide, H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe-D-Leu-OH (DADLE), and its cyclic prodrugs.	In vitro stability and in vivo pharmacokinetic studies of a model opioid peptide, H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe-D-Leu-OH (DADLE), and its cyclic prodrugs (acyloxyalkoxy-based cyclic prodrug of DADLE, coumarinic acid-based cyclic prodrug of DADLE, and oxymethyl-modified coumarinic acid-based cyclic prodrug of DADLE) were conducted. The enzymatic stability of DADLE and its prodrugs in various biological media was determined at 37 degrees C in the presence and absence of paraoxon, a known esterase inhibitor. The prodrugs exhibited metabolic stability to exo- and endopeptidases, and esterase-catalyzed bioconversion of the prodrugs to DADLE was observed. For pharmacokinetic studies in rats, various biological samples (blood, bile, urine, and brain) were collected after i.v. administration of DADLE and its prodrugs. The samples were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection, and the conversion from the prodrugs to intermediates to DADLE was monitored. The prodrugs exhibited similar pharmacokinetic properties and showed improved stability compared with DADLE in rat blood. This increased stability led to higher plasma concentrations of DADLE after i.v. administration of the prodrugs compared with i.v. administration of DADLE alone. In terms of elimination pathways, metabolism by endopeptidases was the major route for DADLE elimination, whereas rapid biliary excretion was the major route of elimination for the prodrugs. The rapid elimination of the prodrugs by the liver and the formation of stable intermediates after esterase hydrolysis limited the bioconversion efficiencies of the prodrugs to DADLE after i.v. administration. The substrate activity of the prodrugs for efflux transporters (e.g., P-glycoprotein) in the blood-brain barrier significantly restricted their access to the brain.
21890735	Proluciferin acetals as bioluminogenic substrates for cytochrome P450 activity and probes for CYP3A inhibition.	Cytochrome P450 (P450) assays use probe substrates to interrogate the influence of new chemical entities toward P450 enzymes. We report the synthesis and study of a family of bioluminogenic luciferin acetal substrates that are oxidized by P450 enzymes to form luciferase substrates. The luciferin acetals were screened against a panel of purified P450 enzymes. In particular, one proluciferin acetal has demonstrated sensitive and selective CYP3A4-catalyzed oxidation to a luciferin ester-K(m) and k(cat) are 2.88 M and 5.87 pmol metabolite  min(-1)  pmol enzyme(-1), respectively. The proluciferin acetal was used as a probe substrate to measure IC(50) values of known inhibitors against recombinant CYP3A4 or human liver microsomes. IC(50) values for the known inhibitors correlate strongly with IC(50) values calculated from the traditional high-performance liquid chromatography-based probe substrate testosterone. Luciferin acetals are rapidly oxidized to unstable hemi-orthoesters by CYP3A resulting in luciferin esters and, therefore, are conducive to simple rapid CYP3A bioluminescent assays.
17988455	Prevalence and disposition of drugs of abuse and opioid treatment drugs in oral fluid.	Testing oral fluid for drugs of abuse has been studied under many conditions but rarely has been evaluated in large population databases. We evaluated oral fluid tests in a database from a commercial laboratory in the United Kingdom composed of 8679 confirmed positive results. The results originated from 635,000 specimens collected over the period of May 2004 through September 2006. Oral fluid specimens were collected with the Intercept oral fluid collection device, screened by enzyme immunoassay, and confirmed by GC-MS or GC-MS-MS. The database was organized by collection settings (legal/treatment, N = 8198 specimens; and workplace, N = 481 specimens) and by drug groups (without consideration of collection setting). The drug groups were as follows (number of confirmed positives): amphetamines (468); benzodiazepines (892); buprenorphine (276); cannabinoids (725); cocaine (1443); methadone (998); and opiates (5739). The goal of the study was to provide drug/metabolite prevalence data, concentrations, and drugs/metabolite patterns encountered in oral fluid. Comparison of results by collection setting indicated differences in relative frequency, primarily for opiates and cannabinoids. Opiate positives were most frequently observed for specimens collected in legal/treatment settings, whereas cannabinoids were most frequently reported in the workplace. An array of information on drug and metabolite occurrences and concentration arose from evaluation of the data by drug groups. Amphetamine was the predominant drug reported for the Amphetamines Group; approximately 10% were also positive for MDA and/or MDMA; and methamphetamine was rarely reported. Multiple combinations of diazepam, nordiazepam, oxazepam, temazepam, chlordiazepoxide, and lorazepam were reported for the Benzodiazepine Group. Buprenorphine, an opioid treatment drug, was the predominant analyte reported, but low concentrations of norbuprenorphine were frequently reported. THC was the predominant analyte reported in the Cannabinoids Group and was frequently reported in combination with cannabidiol and cannabinol. THCCOOH was reported in only 10.8% of these specimens and was never reported in the absence of THC. HO-THC was reported in 5.7% of the specimens. In the Cocaine Group, cocaine was present, often in combination with BZE, but also as the sole analyte in 17.3% of the specimens. AEME and cocaethylene were reported in 10.4% and 5.5% of the specimens. Methadone, another opioid treatment drug, was reported in all specimens for the Methadone Group; EDDP was reported in 30.1% of the specimens. In the Opiates Group, morphine, codeine and 6-acetylmorhine were most frequently reported, often in combination. The frequency of detection of 6-acetylmorphine when morphine was present (N = 4575 specimens) was 77.5%. Surprisingly, heroin (19.0%; N = 1091 specimens) and 6-acetylcodeine (24.9%; N = 1431 specimens) were frequently reported. The results from analysis of this large oral fluid database offer a rich mixture of new information on detection frequency, drug and metabolite patterns, and concentration data on drugs of abuse.
23501442	A UPLC-MS/MS method for the simultaneous plasma quantification of all isomeric forms of the new anti-HCV protease inhibitors boceprevir and telaprevir.	HCV infection affects over 170 milions people in the world. Up to now standard-of-care therapy consisted in ribavirin plus interferon- 2a or 2b. Recently, two new Direct Acting Antivirals (DAA), inhibitors of NS3 HCV protease, have been developed and approved for the routine use on HCV genotype 1 infected patients: boceprevir and telaprevir. Protease inhibitors show complex pharmacokinetics (strong metabolism of both drugs by CYP3A and drug interactions), they require a TID dosage and, furthermore, they are present in plasma patients in two different isomeric forms. In this work, we developed and validated an UPLC-tandem mass spectrometry assay method capable of monitoring the telaprevir and boceprevir concentrations in plasma, discriminating each isomer of both drugs. Blank plasma used for Standards and QCs preparation, was obtained from blood of healthy donors. The calibration curves for each isomer of telaprevir and boceprevir were linear in a range from 46.87 ng/mL to 6000 ng/mL and from 23.43 to 3000 ng/mL, respectively (mean r(2)>0.998 for all analytes). QCs at three different concentration were prepared: High, Medium and Low. Each Standard, QC and patient sample was treated with a protein precipitation protocol with a solution containing acidified acetonitrile and Internal Standard (6,7-Dimethyl-2,3-di(2-pyridyl)quinoxaline). An aliquot of supernatant was diluted and then directly analyzed by reverse-phase UPLC-MS/MS. Accuracy (mean 98.47%), intra-day (mean <5.21%) and inter-day (mean <7.57%) precision for telaprevir and boceprevir quality controls fitted all FDA guidelines. All compounds resulted stable in our method conditions and the extraction procedure showed a recovery near to 100%. Finally, we tested this method by monitoring plasma concentrations in 9 HCV+ patients, for each triple combined therapy, with good results. The observed median ratio between S and R isomers for boceprevir and telaprevir were 1.22 (IQR 1.10-1.33) and 1.52 (IQR 1.21-1.67), respectively. The use of this simple assay method could be an important tool for management of HCV-1 DAAs treated patients.
22538270	Effect of gemfibrozil on the metabolism of brivaracetam in vitro and in human subjects.	Brivaracetam (BRV) is a new high-affinity synaptic vesicle protein 2A ligand in phase III for epilepsy. Initial studies suggested that the hydroxylation of BRV into BRV-OH is supported by CYP2C8. Other metabolic routes include hydrolysis into a carboxylic acid derivative (BRV-AC), which could be further oxidized into a hydroxy acid derivative (BRV-OHAC). The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of gemfibrozil (CYP2C9 inhibitor) and its 1-O--glucuronide (CYP2C8 inhibitor) on BRV disposition both in vivo (healthy participants) and in vitro (human liver microsomes and hepatocytes). In a two-period randomized crossover study, 26 healthy male participants received a single oral dose of 150 mg of BRV alone or at steady state of gemfibrozil (600 mg b.i.d). Gemfibrozil did not modify plasma and urinary excreted BRV, BRV-OH, or BRV-AC. The only observed change was a modest decrease (approximately -40%) in plasma and urinary BRV-OHAC. In human hepatocytes and/or liver microsomes, gemfibrozil potently inhibited the hydroxylation of BRV-AC into BRV-OHAC (K(I) 12 M) while having a marginal effect on BRV-OH formation (K(I) 153 M). Gemfibrozil-1-O--glucuronide had no relevant effect on either reaction (K(I) >200 M). In conclusion, gemfibrozil did not influence the pharmacokinetics of BRV and its hydroxylation into BRV-OH. Overall, in vitro and in vivo data suggest that CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 are not involved in BRV hydroxylation, whereas hydroxylation of BRV-AC to BRV-OHAC is likely to be mediated by CYP2C9.
20624855	Mechanism-based inactivation of cytochrome P450 3A4 by lapatinib.	Fatalities stemming from hepatotoxicity associated with the clinical use of lapatinib (Tykerb), an oral dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor (ErbB-1 and ErbB-2) used in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer, have been reported. We investigated the inhibition of CYP3A4 by lapatinib as a possible cause of its idiosyncratic toxicity. Inhibition of CYP3A4 was time-, concentration-, and NADPH-dependent, with k(inact) = 0.0202 min(-1) and K(i) = 1.709 M. The partition ratio was approximately 50.9. Addition of GSH did not affect the rate of inactivation. Testosterone protected CYP3A4 from inactivation by lapatinib. The characteristic Soret peak associated with a metabolite-intermediate complex was not observed for lapatinib during spectral difference scanning. However, reduced carbon monoxide (CO)-difference spectroscopy did reveal a 43% loss of the spectrally detectable CYP3A4-CO complex in the presence of lapatinib. Incubation of either lapatinib or its dealkylated metabolite with human liver microsomes in the presence of GSH resulted in the formation of a reactive metabolite (RM)-GSH adduct derived from the O-dealkylated metabolite of lapatinib. In addition, coincubation of lapatinib with ketoconazole inhibited the formation of the RM-GSH adduct. In conclusion, we demonstrated for the first time that lapatinib is a mechanism-based inactivator of CYP3A4, most likely via the formation and further oxidation of its O-dealkylated metabolite to a quinoneimine that covalently modifies the CYP3A4 apoprotein and/or heme moiety.
19428196	Interspecies difference in liver-specific functions and biotransformation of testosterone of primary rat, porcine and human hepatocyte in an organotypical sandwich culture.	Interspecies difference is an important issue in toxicology research. We compared the potential in vitro metabolism of human, porcine and rat hepatocytes over 2 weeks in culture in an organotypical culture model which reflects the in vivo situation. All three species show similar LDH-rates. Albumin measurements showed that rat cells are about twice as active as human and porcine hepatocytes. The ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity of the rat hepatocytes is with about 14 microU/10(6)cells distinctly higher than those of porcine and human cells (1.8 and 0.5 microU/10(6)cells respectively), furthermore, the activity of the rat EROD increases slightly during the prolonged time in culture, whereas those of porcine and human enzymes slightly decrease. Concerning ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase (ECOD), the enzyme activities are found to be in three different ranges where rat cells show the highest activity with 66 microU/10(6)cells, porcine hepatocytes exhibit an activity of about 23 microU/10(6)cells, and human activity is lowest with 0.7 microU/10(6)cells. All three species show a similar decreasing trend of ECOD during the period of study. Regarding the biotransformation of testosterone, human and porcine liver cells form three major metabolites whereas rat cells form a mixture of all measured metabolites. Hence, in vitro metabolism using porcine hepatocytes would be much more scientific sense than one using rat hepatocytes since the metabolic pathways are much closer to human metabolism.
8903421	MK386: a potent, selective inhibitor of the human type 1 5alpha-reductase.	Steroid 5alpha-reductase is required for the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Localization of type 1 5alpha-reductase in the sebaceous gland of skin offers the possibility for selective inhibition of this isozyme as a treatment for acne. The goals of these studies are to demonstrate the mechanism of inhibition of MK386 and its selectivity for type 1 5alpha-reductase. The apparent potency of MK386 differed depending on the source of the enzyme (i.e. recombinant vs. native), yet selectivity for type 1 5alpha-reductase was unchanged. Our results indicate that the apparent potency of MK386 is modulated by the membrane concentration of the assay. These results suggest that MK386 has a high affinity for the lipid-rich membrane environment of 5alpha-reductase. MK386 was also found to be a slow binding inhibitor of type 1 5alpha-reductase. However, the cause of this time-dependent inhibition is unrelated to partitioning of the inhibitor into the membrane because similar studies with type 2 5alpha-reductase indicate that MK386 is a reversible, competitive inhibitor. A number of counterscreens were developed to demonstrate that MK386 is a poor inhibitor of other steroid metabolizing enzymes.
15906588	Effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of solifenacin in men and women.	The pharmacokinetics of solifenacin succinate (YM905; Vesicare), a new, bladder-selective, muscarinic receptor antagonist for the treatment of overactive bladder in young/middle-aged and elderly subjects were compared. Solifenacin. 47 healthy adults (24 young/middle-aged: mean age 35; and 23 elderly: mean age 68; 12 males in each age group) were enrolled in a single-center, multi-dose, open-label, crossover trial. Solifenacin, 5 or 10 mg, was administered once daily during two 14-day study periods separated by a washout period. Subjects were randomized to one dose in the first period and the other dose in the second period. Primary outcome variables were maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the curve from time 0 - 24 hours (AUC(0-24)). Secondary parameters included terminal elimination half-life (t1/2), time to C(max) (t(max)), fraction unbound, renal clearance, amount/percent of dose excreted in urine as solifenacin and its metabolites, and trough plasma metabolite concentrations. Adverse events and other safety parameters were also evaluated. Mean C(max) and AUC(0-24) were 16% (90% confidence interval 0.973 - 1.373) and 20% (1.003 - 1.435) higher, respectively, in elderly subjects. Mean t(max) and t1/2 were higher in elderly subjects. In both elderly and younger subjects, increasing the dose from 5 to 10 mg dose proportionally increased C(max), AUC(0- 24), and the amount excreted in urine. As expected, t(max) and t1/2 were not affected. Plasma concentrations and amounts of metabolites excreted in urine also increased dose proportionally. Solifenacin was highly bound to plasma proteins (fraction of the drug unbound in plasma was approximately 0.02), but there was no clear effect of gender or age. Solifenacin 5 or 10 mg once daily for 14 days was well tolerated by all subjects. Although C(max) and AUC(0-24) were higher in elderly subjects than in younger subjects and there was a tendency toward longer t(max) and t1/2, these differences were small and not considered clinically relevant. In this study, no consistent safety/tolerability issues were associated with these pharmacokinetic differences and the administration of solifenacin 5 or 10 mg once daily was well tolerated. The number of adverse events in elderly subjects was similar to that in younger subjects, indicating that no age-related dose adjustments are needed with this agent.
19074528	Metabolism of (+)-1,4-dihydro-7-(trans-3-methoxy-4-methylamino-1-pyrrolidinyl)-4-oxo-1-(2-thiazolyl)-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid (voreloxin; formerly SNS-595), a novel replication-dependent DNA-damaging agent.	(+)-1,4-Dihydro-7-(trans-3-methoxy-4-methylamino-1-pyrrolidinyl)-4-oxo-1-(2-thiazolyl)-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid (voreloxin; formerly SNS-595 or AG-7352) is currently under investigation for the treatment of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and acute myeloid leukemia. In vitro voreloxin undergoes minimal cytochrome P450 (P450) and UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)-mediated metabolism, and in vivo excretion of unchanged voreloxin as the major species is consistent with the slow rate of metabolism observed in vitro. The objective of the present study was to examine the cross-species metabolic profile of voreloxin and to identify and characterize the metabolites formed in rats. We also investigated baculovirus-expressed human P450s and UGTs to determine which isoforms participated in voreloxin metabolism. Incubations using human, monkey, and rat liver microsomes showed monkey and rat metabolism is similar to human. Voreloxin and metabolites collected from plasma, bile, and urine from rats administered radiolabeled voreloxin were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography, and their structures were elucidated by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Activity of metabolites was determined with authentic reference standards in cell-based cytotoxicity assays. The proposed structures of metabolites suggest that metabolic pathways for voreloxin include glucuronide conjugation, oxidation, N-dealkylation, and O-dealkylation.
12435799	Thiopurine metabolism and identification of the thiopurine metabolites transported by MRP4 and MRP5 overexpressed in human embryonic kidney cells.	Mercaptopurines have been used as anticancer agents for more than 40 years, and most acute lymphoblastic leukemias are treated with 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) or 6-thioguanine (TG). Overexpression of the two related multidrug resistance proteins MRP4 and MRP5 has been shown to confer some resistance against mercaptopurines, which has been attributed to extrusion of mercaptopurine metabolites by these transporters. We have analyzed the mercaptopurine metabolites formed in human embryonic kidney cells and determined which metabolites are extruded by MRP4 and MRP5. Incubation with 6MP led to the formation of thioinosine and thioxanthosine metabolites and we found that thio-IMP was transported by both MRP4 and MRP5; MRP5 showed the highest transport rate. In contrast, only MRP5 transported thioxanthosine monophosphate (tXMP). During incubation with TG, the monophosphorylated form of thioguanosine was transported by both MRP4 and MRP5; the highest transport rate was for MRP4. Similarly, only 6-methyl-thio-IMP was formed during incubation with 6-methyl mercaptopurine riboside. This compound was a substrate for both MRP4 and MRP5; MRP4 showed the highest transport rate. Our results show that all major thiopurine monophosphates important in the efficacy of mercaptopurine treatment are transported by MRP4 and MRP5, although the substrate specificity of the two transporters differs in detail.
20478851	Metabolism of flumatinib, a novel antineoplastic tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in chronic myelogenous leukemia patients.	4-(4-Methyl-piperazin-1-ylmethyl)-N-[6-methyl-5-(4-pyridin-3-yl-pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-pyridin-3-yl]-3-trifluoromethyl-benzamide (flumatinib, HH-GV678), an antineoplastic tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is currently in Phase I clinical trials in China for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). The purpose of this study was to identify the metabolites of flumatinib in CML patients, with the aim of determining the main metabolic pathways of flumatinib in humans after oral administration. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed 34 metabolites; 7 primary metabolites were confirmed by comparison with synthetic reference standards. The results show that the parent drug flumatinib was the main form recovered in human plasma, urine, and feces. The main metabolites of flumatinib in humans were the products of N-demethylation, N-oxidation, hydroxylation, and amide hydrolysis. In addition to these phase I metabolites, several phase II glucuronidation and acetylation products were detected in plasma, urine, and feces. The observed circulating metabolites included an N-demethylated metabolite (M1), two hydrolytic metabolites (M3, M4), oxidation metabolites (M2-1, M2-4, M2-7, M2-9, and M14), a glucuronide conjugate (M16-2), and several multiple metabolic products. Flumatinib was predominantly metabolized by amide bond cleavage to yield two corresponding hydrolytic products. By comparison with the related drug 4-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-ylmethyl)-N-[4-methyl-3-(4-pyridin-3-yl-pyrimidin-2-ylamino)-phenyl]-benzamide (imatinib), we concluded that the electron-withdrawing groups of trifluoromethyl and pyridine facilitated the amide bond cleavage and led to the in vivo formation of a carboxylic acid and an amine.
7952135	Determination of phenol in urine by high-performance liquid chromatography with on-line precolumn enzymatic hydrolysis of the conjugates.	A precolumn enzyme reactor containing beta-glucosidase immobilized on LC-NH2 packed-material beads was used on-line with HPLC for determining the glucuronide/sulphate metabolites of benzene. After dilution with phosphate buffer (pH 6.8), the urine sample was injected into the HPLC system directly. Subsequently, after hydrolysis of the conjugates, phenol was produced in the enzyme reactor and was separated from other urinary components on a reversed-phase C18 column with fluorescence detection. A switching valve assembly was used to control the passage of the sample and the eluent into the reactor to prevent damage to the enzyme by the elution solvent. Factors affecting the enzymatic hydrolysis were investigated. The proposed method provides a simple and rapid procedure for urinary phenol determination. The calibration graph was linear in the range 0.25-5.0 ppm with a good correlation coefficient (r = 0.999), and in the range 0.05-1.0 ppm with r = 0.981. The detection limit was 10 ppb and the relative standard deviation was less than 2.27%. Application of the method is illustrated by the analysis of a urine sample collected from a gas station worker.
15689501	Differential mechanism-based inhibition of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 by verapamil.	The genetic basis for polymorphic expression of CYP3A5 has been recently identified, but the significance of CYP3A5 expression is unclear. The purpose of this study is to quantify the capability of verapamil, a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP3A, and its metabolites to inhibit the activities of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, and to determine whether CYP3A5 expression in human liver microsomes alters the inhibitory potency of verapamil. Testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation or midazolam 1'-hydroxylation was used to quantify CYP3A activity. The possibility that verapamil and its metabolites form metabolic-intermediate complex (MIC) with CYP3A was assessed using dual beam spectrophotometry. Verapamil and N-desalkylverapamil (D617) were found to have little inhibitory effect on cDNA-expressed CYP3A5 activity and did not form a MIC with cDNA-expressed CYP3A5 as indicated by the appearance of the characteristic peak at 455 nm. At 50 microM, norverapamil showed time-dependent inhibition of CYP3A5 (30%), but to a much lesser extent compared with that of CYP3A4 (80%). The estimated values of the inactivation parameters k(inact) and K(I) of norverapamil were 4.53 microM and 0.07 min(-1) for cDNA-expressed CYP3A5, and 10.3 microM and 0.30 min(-1) for cDNA-expressed CYP3A4. Human liver microsomes that expressed CYP3A5 were less inhibited by both verapamil and norverapamil. The inactivation efficiency of verapamil and norverapamil was 30 times and 45 times lower, respectively, for CYP3A5-expressing microsomes compared with CYP3A5-non-expressing microsomes. These findings indicate that the presence of variable CYP3A5/CYP3A4 expression in the liver may contribute to the interindividual variability associated with verapamil-mediated drug interactions.
18431571	Altered cyclophosphamide and thiotepa pharmacokinetics in a patient with moderate renal insufficiency.	We report a patient with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance, CL(cr) = 38 mL/min) who received high-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (1,500 mg/m(2) day(-1)), thiotepa (120 mg/m(2) day(-1)) and carboplatin (AUC = 5 mg min/mL day(-1)) for four consecutive days. Blood samples were collected on day 1 and 3 and plasma levels of cyclophosphamide, its active metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, thiotepa, its main metabolite tepa and carboplatin were determined. Pharmacokinetic analyses indicated that the elimination of cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, carboplatin, but especially tepa was strongly reduced in this patient, resulting in increased exposures to these compounds of 67, 43, 30 and 157%, respectively, compared to a reference population (n = 24) receiving similar doses. Exposure to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide increased 11%. These results suggest that it may not be necessary to alter the dose of cyclophosphamide in patients with moderate renal impairment. However, because high exposures to thiotepa and tepa have been correlated with increased toxicity, caution should be applied when administering thiotepa to patients with renal insufficiency.
18334104	An unusual trichloroethanol fatality attributed to sniffing trichloroethylene.	We report the death of a 28-year-old man due to sniffing a contact cement containing trichloroethylene. Initial testing revealed the presence of 80 mg/L trichloroethanol in cardiac blood, and the death was ruled as being due to trichloroethanol toxicity resulting from chloral hydrate ingestion. However, further investigation of the case revealed that the trichloroethanol resulted from trichloroethylene abuse. Subsequent targeted analysis for trichloroethylene, four months after the death, confirmed its presence in cardiac blood (1.1 mg/L), bile (4.5 mg/L), and liver (2.5 mg/kg). Trichloroethanol was initially detected during routine drug screening that employed gas chromatography (GC) using an HP-5 column with electron capture detection and subsequently quantitated by GC using the same column as for the initial screen, but with flame-ionization detection (FID); ethchlorvynol was the internal standard. Trichloroethylene was quantitated by headspace GC with a Restek Rtx-BAC1 column and FID; 1,1,1-trichloroethane was the internal standard.
14973309	Pharmacokinetics and safety of viramidine, a prodrug of ribavirin, in healthy volunteers.	Ribavirin, part of the current first-line combination therapy for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, has side effects-in particular, hemolytic anemia-that is frequently dose limiting. Based on animal studies, viramidine, a prodrug of ribavirin, is converted to ribavirin in the liver. Viramidine dosing yielded 50% higher ribavirin levels in the monkey liver but only half in plasma and red blood cells compared to ribavirin dosing. At the same dose, it also had a safer profile than ribavirin in a 28-day toxicity study in monkeys. The current study was carried out to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of viramidine in healthy male volunteers (n = 8-18 on viramidine vs. 2 on placebo at each dose level) after oral dosing of viramidine at 200, 600, and 1200 mg. There were no serious adverse events, and most adverse events were mild. The percentages of treatment-emergent events judged to be possibly related to the study drug were 50% in the 1200-mg group, 26% in the 600-mg group, and none in the 200-mg group. Viramidine was orally absorbed and rapidly converted to ribavirin with a t(max) of 1.5 to 3.0 hours for both viramidine and ribavirin in plasma. There was dose proportionality in plasma AUC(0-168 h) and C(max) for viramidine and in plasma AUC(0-168 h) for ribavirin. Plasma AUC(0-168 h) for ribavirin was two to four times higher than plasma AUC(0-168 h) for viramidine, indicating that viramidine is extensively metabolized to ribavirin and is a prodrug of ribavirin in man. Amounts of viramidine and ribavirin excreted in the urine were small (2%-5% of dose), indicating that the main route of elimination for both viramidine and ribavirin is metabolism. Both viramidine and ribavirin were excreted into urine through the mechanism of glomerular filtration. In addition, an evaluation of the effect of a high-fat meal on the pharmacokinetics of viramidine and ribavirin after oral dosing of viramidine at 600 mg was conducted in healthy male volunteers (n = 33-34) in a crossover study design. A high-fat meal increased viramidine plasma AUC(0-168 h) by 44% and C(max) by 20%. It also increased ribavirin plasma AUC(0-168 h) by 19% and C(max) by 43%. The clinical relevance of these increases is unknown.
19053182	In vitro nimesulide studies toward understanding idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity: diiminoquinone formation and conjugation.	Nimesulide is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) marketed in more than 50 countries. This drug has caused rare and idiosyncratic but severe hepatotoxicity. The mechanisms associated with and factors responsible for this toxicity remain unknown. One of the nimesulide metabolites identified in human urine is 4-amino-2-phenoxy-methanesulfonanilide (M1). In the current study, we demonstrate that M1 is a stable metabolite that is highly susceptible to facile oxidation by cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450s) to form a reactive diiminoquinone intermediate (M2). Direct detection of M2 was difficult by LC-MS. However, its formation was confirmed indirectly by identification of N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) adducts of M2. The formation of diiminoquinone M2 was P450 mediated with 2C19 and 1A2 as the two principal P450 enzymes catalyzing M1 oxidation. M1 metabolism irreversibly inhibited 2C19 but activated 1A2 in a time-dependent manner. P450 2C19 exclusively mediated further metabolism of M1 to the amino hydroxynimesulide M3 and its diiminoquinone M4. Similar to M2, M4 is also reactive and can be observed indirectly as its NAC adduct. Nucleophilic addition to diiminoquinone M2 occurs with low regioselectivity, yielding three adducts (the peak area ratio 1:0.08:12). The three regioisomers have the same m/z for [M + H](+), presumably due to nucleophilic addition at the three possible electrophilic sites (C-3, -5, and -6 positions of the sulfonaniline ring). The primary adduct, R, was derived from the attack of the nucleophile at the C-5 position of the sulfonaniline ring and was determined by MS/MS and (1)H and (13)C NMR analyses. The structural assignments were confirmed by chemical synthesis of the adduct R. M2 demonstrated its electrophilic reactivity by selectively alkylating human serum albumin (HSA) at the only free thiol, Cys-34. This suggests the possibility that other proteins may undergo a similar conjugation to form irreversible adducts. Under oxidizing conditions in the presence of cumene hydroperoxide (CHP), the formation of M2 was enhanced, indicating that oxidative stress may accelerate the production of reactive diiminoquinone species (M2 and M4).
868080	Identification of 3-methyl-2-thiohydantoin, a metabolite of carbimazole, in man.	1. Classical and high-pressure liquid chromatographic separations were devised for the separation and isolation of the metabolite 3-methyl-2-thiohydantoin from the urine of patients receiving carbimazole orally. 2. 3-methyl-2-thiohydantoin was identified by comparing its absorption and mass spectral properties with authentic material. 3. 3-methyl-2-thiohydantoin was also detected in the plasma of patients receiving methimazole intravenously.
9192219	Ethnic differences in biological monitoring of several organic solvents. I. Human exposure experiment.	In order to improve the reliability of biological monitoring and the development of biological limit values, ethnic differences for several organic solvents were studied in Orientals and Caucasians. Six Caucasian and six Oriental volunteers were exposed to each organic solvent in an exposure chamber for 6 h. Exposure concentration to each organic solvent studied was 50 ppm for perchloroethylene, 50 ppm for styrene and 100 ppm for m-xylene, respectively. Biological monitoring was carried out for the parent organic solvents in exhaled air and in blood, and for the metabolites in urine during and after exposure. Caucasians showed higher concentrations of perchloroethylene in exhaled air than Orientals after exposure. But Caucasians showed lower concentrations of styrene in the exhaled air than Orientals during the second half of exposure and after it. Orientals showed lower concentrations of urinary metabolites than Caucasians except for mandelic acid. There were no statistically significant differences in the concentrations of solvent in blood for all three solvents. Implications of these differences in biological levels, under identical exposure conditions, are discussed in the context of biological monitoring.
17192499	Dose-proportional intraindividual single- and repeated-dose pharmacokinetics of roflumilast, an oral, once-daily phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor.	The dose-proportional, intraindividual, single- and repeated-dose pharmacokinetics of roflumilast, an oral, once-daily phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor under investigation for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma, was investigated in healthy subjects. In an open, randomized, 2-period, 2-sequence crossover study, 15 subjects received immediate-release tablets of roflumilast 250 or 500 microg as single (day 1) and as repeated, once-daily doses for 8 days (days 5-12). Dose-adjusted point estimates and 90% confidence intervals of test (500 microg)/reference (250 microg) ratios for AUC and Cmax of roflumilast and its pharmacologically active N-oxide metabolite after single and repeated dosing were all within the standard equivalence acceptance range (0.80, 1.25) indicating dose proportionality. The pharmacokinetic properties of both roflumilast dosage forms provide clinically relevant evidence of predictable, intraindividual total (AUC) and maximum (Cmax) exposure of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide. Repeated oral dosing with roflumilast 250 and 500 microg once daily was well tolerated.
20875371	Evaluation of the pharmacokinetic interaction between the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor linagliptin and pioglitazone in healthy volunteers.	Co-administration of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor linagliptin (BI 1356) with pioglitazone may improve glycemic control in patients with Type 2 diabetes due to their complementary mechanisms of action. This study aimed to investigate any potential pharmacokinetic interaction between linagliptin and pioglitazone, a CYP 2C8 substrate. 20 (10 male and 10 female) healthy subjects, between 22 and 65 years of age with a BMI range of > = 18.5 and < =29.9 kg/m2, took part in this single center open-label, randomized,two-way cross-over study. The subjects were administered linagliptin 10 mg/day and/orpioglitazone 45 mg/day until steady state was reached. Co-administration of pioglitazone did not significantly affect linagliptin Cmax,ss (geometric mean ratio(GMR) 107.3; 90% confidence interval (CI);92.3  124.8) or AUC tau,ss (GMR 113.4; 90%CI 103.0  124.9). Co-administration of linagliptin did not significantly affect pioglitazoneAU tau,ss (GMR 94.4; 90% CI 87.1 102.2), but reduced Cmax,ss by 14% (GMR85.6; 90% CI 78.1  93.8). As expected, linagliptin and pioglitazone were well tolerated,whether administered alone or concomitantly.There were no reported serious adverse events. The investigator defined 5 adverse events as drug-related with linagliptin,and 4 with pioglitazone. Linagliptinand pioglitazone have no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction and may be co-administered without dose adjustment.These data further confirm that linagliptin is not an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo.As the pharmacokinetic profiles of linagliptin and pioglitazone are similar in Type 2 diabetes patients and healthy subjects, it is reasonable to assume that they may be administered together to Type 2 diabetes patients without dose adjustment.
18837519	Chemical reactivity of methoxy 4-o-aryl quinolines: identification of glutathione displacement products in vitro and in vivo.	AMG 458 {1-(2-hydroxy-2-methylpropyl)-N-[5-(7-methoxyquinolin-4-yloxy)pyridin-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-oxo-2-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide} is a potent, selective inhibitor of c-Met, a receptor tyrosine kinase that is often deregulated in cancer. AMG 458 was observed to bind covalently to liver microsomal proteins from rats and humans in the absence of NADPH. When [(14)C]AMG 458 was incubated with liver microsomes in the presence of glutathione and N-acetyl cysteine, thioether adducts were detected by radiochromatography and LC/MS/MS analysis. These adducts were also formed upon incubation of AMG 458 with glutathione and N-acetyl cysteine in buffers at pH 7.4. In vivo, the thioether adducts were detected in bile and urine of bile duct-cannulated rats dosed with [(14)C]AMG 458. The two adducts were isolated, and their structures were determined by MS/MS and NMR analysis. The identified structures resulted from a thiol displacement reaction to yield a quinoline thioether structure and the corresponding hydroxyaryl moiety. The insights gained from elucidating the mechanism of adduct formation led to the design of AMG 458 analogues that exhibited eliminated or reduced glutathione adduct formation in vitro and in vivo.
19681099	Two-injection workflow for a liquid chromatography/LTQ-Orbitrap system to complete in vivo biotransformation characterization: demonstration with buspirone metabolite identification.	The relatively high background matrix in in vivo samples typically poses difficulties in drug metabolite identification, and causes repeated analytical runs on unit resolution liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) systems before the completion of biotransformation characterization. Ballpark parameter settings for the LTQ-Orbitrap are reported herein that enable complete in vivo metabolite identification within two HPLC/MS injections on the hybrid LTQ-Orbitrap data collection system. By setting the FT survey full scan at 60K resolution to trigger five dependent LTQ MS(2) scans, and proper parameters of Repeat Duration, Exclusion Duration and Repeat Count for the first run (exploratory), the Orbitrap achieved the optimal parallel data acquisition capability and collected maximum number of product ion scans. Biotransformation knowledge based prediction played the key role in exact mass ion extraction and multiple mass defect filtration when the initial data was processed. Meanwhile, product ion extraction and neutral loss extraction of the initial dependent data provided additional bonus in identifying metabolites. With updated parent mass list and the data-dependent setting to let only the ions on the parent mass list trigger dependent scans, the second run (confirmatory) ensures that all precursor ions of identified metabolites trigger not only dependent product ion scans, but also at or close to the highest concentration of the eluted metabolite peaks. This workflow has been developed for metabolite identification of in vivo or ADME studies, of which the samples typically contain a high level of complex matrix. However, due to the proprietary nature of the in vivo studies, this workflow is presented herein with in vitro buspirone sample incubated with human liver microsomes (HLM). The major HLM-mediated biotransformation on buspirone was identified as oxidation or hydroxylation since five mono- (+16 Da), seven di- (+32 Da) and at least three tri-oxygenated (+48 Da) metabolites were identified. Besides the metabolites 1-pyrimidinylpiperazine (1-PP) and hydroxylated 1-PP that formed by N-dealkylation, a new metabolite M308 was identified as the result of a second N-dealkylation of the pyrimidine unit. Two new metabolites containing the 8-butyl-8-azaspiro[4,5]decane-7,9-dione partial structure, M240 and M254, were also identified that were formed apparently due to the first N-dealkylation of the 1-PP moiety.
15889905	Discovery, biosynthesis, and structure elucidation of metabolites of a doping agent and a direct analogue, tetrahydrogestrinone and gestrinone, using human hepatocytes.	Tetrahydrogestrinone (18a-homo-pregna-4,9,11-trien-17beta-ol-3-one, THG) is an anabolic androgenic steroid sold to athletes as an undetectable performance enhancer. Being an unapproved substance, no legitimate in vivo human excretion studies could be performed to identify urinary markers of this doping agent. In vitro systems were used as an alternative approach to study the human metabolism of THG and the gestrinone analogue, which is a marketed drug. Incubations of both compounds in the presence of human hepatocytes led to formation of oxidative and glucuroconjugated metabolites. Microgram quantities of the major in vitro metabolites were biosynthesized using human hepatocytes, characterized by HPLC/MS/MS, and their structures elucidated by NMR. Due to high structure similarity, both THG and gestrinone had an analogous in vitro metabolic pathway leading to successive addition of a hydroxyl and a beta-glucuronic acid at C-18. This in vitro metabolite of gestrinone was consistent with a previously reported major but unknown human urinary metabolite. The structure of another metabolite of THG was proposed to be a glucuroconjugate of an oxidative product with a hydroxyl group most likely at C-16epsilon. In vitro information reported therein could significantly impact the identification of new urinary markers of THG for doping control purposes.
8739811	Multiple-dose clinical pharmacology of the catechol-O-methyl-transferase inhibitor tolcapone in elderly subjects.	The purpose of this study was to assess the multiple-dose clinical pharmacology of tolcapone, a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, in elderly subjects. The drug was administered orally t.i.d. for 7 days to four sequential groups of eight elderly subjects (gender ratio 1:1) at doses of 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, ascending-multiple-dose design. On days 2 and 7, a single dose of levodopa/benserazide 100/25 mg was given 1 h after the first intake of tolcapone. Plasma concentrations of tolcapone; its metabolite 3-O-methyltolcapone, levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa were determined during the course of the study in conjunction with COMT activity in erythrocytes. Tolcapone was well tolerated at all dose levels, with a slight increase in gastrointestinal adverse events in females at higher doses. The drug was rapidly absorbed and eliminated and showed no changes in pharmacokinetics with time during multiple doses of 100 and 200 mg t.i.d. At doses of 400 and 800 mg t.i.d., tolcapone accumulated moderately as reflected in increased Cmax and AUC values. Despite the long halflife of 3-O-methyltolcapone (39 h), only minor accumulation occurred due to suppression of its formation by tolcapone. The pharmacodynamics of tolcapone did not change during the week of treatment as reflected in inhibition of COMT activity in erythrocytes, the derived parameters of the plasma concentration-effect relationship (inhibitory Emax model with constant EC50 values) and the effect on levodopa pharmacokinetics (1.6 to 2.5-fold increase in bioavailability). This suggests the absence of tolerance development and the insignificance of the altered pharmacokinetics at 400 and 800 mg t.i.d. with regard to the pharmacodynamics. The results of this study offer promising perspectives for the application of tolcapone as adjunct therapy to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
20964620	Activation of CYP3A-mediated testosterone 6-hydroxylation by tanshinone IIA and midazolam 1-hydroxylation by cryptotanshinone in human liver microsomes.	This study evaluated the in vitro activation of CYP3A-mediated midazolam 1-hydroxylation and testosterone 6-hydroxylation by tanshinone I, tanshinone IIA, and cryptotanshinone. The abilities of tanshinones to activate CYP3A-mediated midazolam 1-hydroxylation and testosterone 6-hydroxylation in human liver microsomes (HLMs) were tested. Substrate- and effector-dependent activation of CYP3A by tanshinones were both observed. Cryptotanshinone was shown to activate CYP3A-mediated midazolam 1-hydroxylation in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, tanshinone IIA and tanshinone I did not activate this hydroxylation reaction. In addition, tanshinone IIA activated CYP3A-mediated testosterone 6-hydroxylation, whereas cryptotanshinone and tanshinone I did not. The results from our study enhance the understanding of CYP3A activation by tanshinone IIA and cryptotanshinone in HLMs. Additionally, these data allow for an accurate prediction of the magnitude and likelihood of Danshen-drug interactions.
19420130	Comparative metabolism of 14C-labeled apixaban in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and humans.	The metabolism and disposition of [(14)C]apixaban, a potent, reversible, and direct inhibitor of coagulation factor Xa, were investigated in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and humans after a single oral administration and in incubations with hepatocytes. In plasma, the parent compound was the major circulating component in mice, rats, dogs, and humans. O-Demethyl apixaban sulfate (M1) represented approximately 25% of the parent area under the time curve in human plasma. This sulfate metabolite was present, but in lower amounts relative to the parent, in plasma from mice, rats, and dogs. Rabbits showed a plasma metabolite profile distinct from that of other species with apixaban as a minor component and M2 (O-demethyl apixaban) and M14 (O-demethyl apixaban glucuronide) as prominent components. The fecal route was a major elimination pathway, accounting for >54% of the dose in animals and >46% in humans. The urinary route accounted for <15% of the dose in animals and 25 to 28% in humans. Apixaban was the major component in feces of every species and in urine of all species except rabbit. M1 and M2 were common prominent metabolites in urine and feces of all species as well as in bile of rats and humans. In vivo metabolite profiles showed quantitative differences between species and from in vitro metabolite profiles, but all human metabolites were found in animal species. After intravenous administration of [(14)C]apixaban to bile duct-cannulated rats, the significant portion (approximately 22%) of the dose was recovered as parent drug in the feces, suggesting direct excretion of the drug from gastrointestinal tracts of rats. Overall, apixaban was effectively eliminated via multiple elimination pathways in animals and humans, including oxidative metabolism, and direct renal and intestinal excretion.
11151743	Pharmacokinetics of quercetin from quercetin aglycone and rutin in healthy volunteers.	Quercetin is a flavonoid with a wide range of biological activities. It mainly occurs in plants as glycosides, such as rutin (quercetin rutinoside) in tea. Quercetin and rutin are used in many countries as vasoprotectants and are ingredients of numerous multivitamin preparations and herbal remedies. The primary objective was to characterise and compare the absorption and the pharmacokinetics of quercetin from quercetin aglycone and rutin. A secondary objective was to investigate which forms of quercetin are present in plasma. In this double blind, diet-controlled, two-period cross-over study, 16 healthy volunteers received three different doses of quercetin and rutin orally. The doses corresponded to 8 mg, 20 mg and 50 mg quercetin aglycone. Blood samples were obtained between 0 h and 32 h post-dose. The overall kinetic behaviour of quercetin differed remarkably after ingestion of quercetin aglycone or rutin. The mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 h to 32 h [AUC(0-32)] and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) values of the two treatments were similar. However, time to reach Cmax (tmax) was significantly shorter after the quercetin aglycone treatment than after the rutin treatment (1.9, 2.7 and 4.8 versus 6.5, 7.4 and 7.5 h, for doses 1, 2 and 3, respectively). Also, the absorption of quercetin from quercetin aglycone was predictable and inter-individual variation was small. In contrast, after ingestion of rutin, inter-individual variations in AUC(0-32) and Cmax values were considerable and seemed to be associated with gender and use of oral contraceptives. Quercetin and rutin were found in plasma as glucuronides and/or sulfates of quercetin and as unconjugated quercetin aglycone, but no rutin was detected. In clinical trials, studying the effects of quercetin from rutin, bioavailability must be taken into consideration and plasma quercetin concentrations monitored. Whether our results apply to other glycosidic drugs as well, especially other rutosides, should be investigated.
18307373	In vitro and in vivo evaluations of cytochrome P450 1A2 interactions with duloxetine.	To determine whether duloxetine is a substrate, inhibitor or inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 enzyme, using in vitro and in vivo studies in humans. Human liver microsomes or cells with expressed CYP enzymes and specific CYP inhibitors were used to identify which CYP enzymes catalyse the initial oxidation steps in the metabolism of duloxetine. The potential of duloxetine to inhibit CYP1A2 activity was determined using incubations with human liver microsomes and phenacetin, the CYP1A2 substrate. The potential for duloxetine to induce CYP1A2 activity was determined using human primary hepatocytes treated with duloxetine for 72 hours. Studies in humans were conducted using fluvoxamine, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, and theophylline, a CYP1A2 substrate, as probes. The subjects were healthy men and women aged 18-65 years. Single-dose duloxetine was administered either intravenously as a 10-mg infusion over 30 minutes or orally as a 60-mg dose in the presence or absence of steady-state fluvoxamine (100 mg orally once daily). Single-dose theophylline was given as 30-minute intravenous infusions of aminophylline 250 mg in the presence or absence of steady-state duloxetine (60 mg orally twice daily). Plasma concentrations of duloxetine, its metabolites and theophylline were determined using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated using noncompartmental methods and evaluated using mixed-effects ANOVA. Safety measurements included vital signs, clinical laboratory tests, a physical examination, ECG readings and adverse event reports. The in vitro results indicated that duloxetine is metabolized by CYP1A2; however, duloxetine was predicted not to be an inhibitor or inducer of CYP1A2 in humans. Following oral administration in the presence of fluvoxamine, the duloxetine area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC(infinity)) and the maximum plasma drug concentration (C(max)) significantly increased by 460% (90% CI 359, 584) and 141% (90% CI 93, 200), respectively. In the presence of fluvoxamine, the oral bioavailability of duloxetine increased from 42.8% to 81.9%. In the presence of duloxetine, the theophylline AUC(infinity) and C(max) increased by only 13% (90% CI 7, 18) and 7% (90% CI 2, 14), respectively. Coadministration of duloxetine with fluvoxamine or theophylline did not result in any clinically important safety concerns, and these combinations were generally well tolerated. Duloxetine is metabolized primarily by CYP1A2; therefore, coadministration of duloxetine with potent CYP1A2 inhibitors should be avoided. Duloxetine does not seem to be a clinically significant inhibitor or inducer of CYP1A2; therefore, dose adjustment of CYP1A2 substrates may not be necessary when they are coadministered with duloxetine.
21305290	A phase I study of MN-029 (denibulin), a novel vascular-disrupting agent, in patients with advanced solid tumors.	MN-029 (denibulin HCl) is a novel vascular-disrupting agent that reversibly inhibits microtubule assembly, resulting in disruption of the cytoskeleton of tumor vascular endothelial cells. This study determined the safety, pharmacokinetics, and acute anti-vascular effects of MN-029. Patients were treated with escalating doses of MN-029 (4.0-225mg/m(2)) administered IV at 3-week intervals. This first-in-human study followed an accelerated titration design, with intra-patient dose escalation. Plasma samples were assayed to determine PK parameters. DCE-MRI scans were acquired at baseline and at 6-8h post-dose. Thirty-four patients received 151 infusions of MN-029. The most common toxicities of MN-029 included nausea and vomiting (which appeared to be dose related), diarrhea, fatigue, headache, and anorexia. No clinically significant myelotoxicity, stomatitis or alopecia was observed. There was no evidence of cumulative toxicity in patients receiving multiple courses of therapy. The cohort at 180mg/m(2) was expanded to six patients due to a reversible episode of acute coronary ischemia, without sequelae and with preservation of myocardial function. Two dose-limiting toxicities occurred at 225mg/m(2), a transient ischemic attack and grade 3 transaminitis, thus ending dose escalation. Pharmacokinetic data indicated dose-related increases in C (max) and AUC values, although substantial inter-subject variability was observed. No objective responses were noted; however, five patients had stable disease 6months. A significant linear correlation was found between reduction in K (trans) and exposure to MN-029. MN-029 was generally well tolerated and showed decrease in tumor vascular parameters. The maximum tolerated dose was 180mg/m(2).
15370963	Influence of different recombinant systems on the cooperativity exhibited by cytochrome P4503A4.	1. The in vitro cooperativity exhibited by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 is influenced by the nature of the recombinant system in which the phenomenon is studied. Diclofenac, piroxicam and R-warfarin were used as model substrates, and quinidine was the effector. 2. The 5-, 5'- and 10-hydroxylation of diclofenac, piroxicam and R-warfarin, respectively, were enhanced five- to sevenfold by quinidine in human liver microsomal incubations. Whereas these cooperative drug interactions were apparent in incubations with CYP3A4 expressed in human lymphoblast cells, similar phenomena were not observed with the enzyme expressed in insect cells. 3. Insect cell microsomes were treated with a detergent and CYP3A4 was solubilized into a buffer medium. In incubations with CYP3A4 'freed' from its host membrane, the 5-hydroxylation of diclofenac increased with increasing quinidine concentrations, reaching a maximal eightfold elevation relative to controls. The metabolism of piroxicam and warfarin was similarly enhanced by quinidine. 4. Kinetically, enhancement by quinidine of the 5-hydroxylation of diclofenac in incubations with solubilized CYP3A4 was characterized by increases in the rate of metabolism with little change in the substrate-binding affinity. Conversely, the 3-hydroxylation of quinidine was not affected by diclofenac. 5. The data suggest that certain properties of CYP3A4 are masked by expression of the protein in insect cells and reinforce the concept that the enzyme possesses multiple binding domains. The absence of cooperative drug interactions with quinidine when CYP3A4 was expressed in insect cells might be due to an absence of enzyme conformation changes on quinidine binding, or the inability of quinidine to gain access to a putative effector-binding domain. 6. Caution should be exercised when comparing models for CYP3A4 cooperativity derived from different recombinant preparations of the enzyme.
16297353	Identification of some benproperine metabolites in humans and investigation of their antitussive effect.	To identify 4 unknown metabolites of benproperine (BPP, 1) in human urine after a po dose, and to investigate the antitussive effect of monohydroxylate metabolites. The putative metabolite references were prepared using chemical synthesis. Their structures were identified using 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance, and mass spectrometry. The metabolites in human urine were separated and assayed using liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS), and further confirmed by comparison of their mass spectra and chromatographic retention times with those of synthesized reference substances. The antitussive effects of metabolites were evaluated on coughs induced by 7.5% citric acid in conscious guinea pigs. 1-[1-Methyl-2-[2-(phenylmethyl)phenoxy]-ethyl]-4-piperidinol (2), 1-[1-methyl-2-[2-(phenylmethyl)phenoxy] ethyl]-3-piperidinol (3) and their glucuronides 4 and 5 were obtained from chemical synthesis. Four urinary metabolites in human urine showed peaks with the same chromatographic retention times and mass spectra in LC/MS/MS as synthetic substances 2, 3, 4 and 5. Phosphates of compounds 2 and 3 prolonged the latency of cough and reduced the number of coughs during the 3 min test using citric acid, but did not reduce the number of coughs during the 5 min immediately after the test in conscious guinea pigs. Compounds 2, 3, 4, and 5 were identified as the metabolites of BPP in human urine. Among them, compounds 2 and 3 are inactive in the antitussive effect.
22474055	Assessment of exposure of metabolites in preclinical species and humans at steady state from the single-dose radiolabeled absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion studies: a case study.	The exposure of a drug candidate and its metabolites in humans and preclinical species during drug development needs to be determined to ensure that the safety of drug-related components in humans is adequately assessed in the standard toxicology studies. The in vivo radiolabeled studies in preclinical species and human volunteers provide the total fate of the drug-derived radioactivity including the relative abundance of metabolites. Here, we describe how the single-dose radiolabeled human studies could provide the exposure of circulating metabolites at steady state using a case study of an extensively metabolized drug, lixivaptan. After an oral dose of [(14)C]lixivaptan to humans, a total of nine metabolites were detected in the systemic circulation; eight of them exceeded 10% of the parent exposure (2-41% of total radioactivity). The plasma samples were profiled for all subjects at each time point by high-performance liquid chromatography, and metabolites were quantified using a radioactive detector. On the basis of single-dose area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) values, exposure of six human metabolites was greater at least in one preclinical species used in toxicology evaluation. On the basis of the t(1/2) of lixivaptan and two major metabolites from a single dose in humans, their AUC and C(max) values were simulated at the steady state. The simulated exposure (C(max) and AUC) values of parent drug and the two most abundant metabolites were similar to those from a 7-day clinical study obtained using a validated liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry assay, suggesting that a well designed single-dose radiolabeled human study can help in addressing the metabolites in safety testing-related issues.
18707140	In vitro metabolism and covalent binding of enol-carboxamide derivatives and anti-inflammatory agents sudoxicam and meloxicam: insights into the hepatotoxicity of sudoxicam.	Sudoxicam and meloxicam are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) from the enol-carboxamide class. While the only structural difference between the two NSAIDs is the presence of a methyl group on the C5-position of the 2-carboxamidothiazole motif in meloxicam, a marked difference in their toxicological profile in humans has been discerned. In clinical trials, sudoxicam was associated with several cases of severe hepatotoxicity that led to its discontinuation, while meloxicam has been in the market for over a decade and is devoid of hepatotoxicity. In an attempt to understand the biochemical basis for the differences in safety profile, an in vitro investigation of the metabolic pathways and covalent binding of the two NSAIDs was conducted in NADPH-supplemented human liver microsomes. Both compounds demonstrated NADPH-dependent covalent binding to human liver microsomes; however, the extent of binding of [(14)C]-meloxicam was approximately 2-fold greater than that of [(14)C]-sudoxicam. While inclusion of glutathione (GSH) in microsomal incubations resulted in a decrease in covalent binding for both NSAIDs, the reduction in binding was more pronounced for meloxicam. Metabolite identification studies on [(14)C]-sudoxicam in NADPH-supplemented human liver microsomes indicated that the primary route of metabolism involved a P450-mediated thiazole ring scission to the corresponding acylthiourea metabolite (S3), a well-established pro-toxin. The mechanism of formation of S3 presumably proceeds via (a) epoxidation of the C4-C5-thiazole ring double bond, (b) epoxide hydrolysis to the corresponding thiazole-4,5-dihydrodiol derivative, which was observed as a stable metabolite (S2), (c) ring opening of the thiazole-4,5-dihydrodiol to an 2-oxoethylidene thiourea intermediate, and (d) hydrolysis of the imine bond within this intermediate to yield S3. In the case of meloxicam, the corresponding acylthiourea metabolite M3 was also observed, but to a lesser extent; the main route of meloxicam metabolism involved hydroxylation of the 5'-methyl group, a finding that is consistent with the known metabolic fate of this NSAID. Inclusion of GSH led to a decrease in the formation of M3 with the concomitant formation of an unusual two-electron reduction product (metabolite M7). The formation of M7 is proposed to arise via reduction of the imine bond in 2-oxopropylidene thiourea, an intermediate in the thiazole ring scission pathway in meloxicam. In conclusion, the results of our analysis suggest that if the covalent binding of the two NSAIDs is important to the overall hepatotoxicity risk, the differences in metabolism (differential preponderance of formation of the acylthiourea relative to total metabolism), differential effects of GSH on covalent binding, and finally differences in daily doses of the two NSAIDs may serve as a plausible explanation for the marked differences in toxicity.
23436169	Metabolism of levamisole and kinetics of levamisole and aminorex in urine by means of LC-QTOF-HRMS and LC-QqQ-MS.	The antihelminthic drug Levamisole can enhance cocaine effects by conversion into the amphetamine-like drug aminorex. We describe an LC-MS method for the determination of levamisole and its metabolite aminorex in human urine. Selectivity is given, calibration curves were linear within the calibration range 2.5-250 ng/mL; limits of the method were LoD 0.51 ng/mL, LoQ 1.02 ng/mL for levamisole and LoD 0.65 ng/mL, LoQ 0.76 ng/mL for aminorex. Precision data was in accordance with the guidelines (intraday precision for aminorex ranged between 5.75 and 11.0 % for levamisole between 8.36 and 10.9 %; interday precision for levamisole 10.9-16.9 % and for aminorex 7.64-12.7 %; accuracy data for levamisole -1.96 to -14.3 % and for aminorex-11.9 to-18.5 %). The validated method was successfully applied to study the urinary excretion of levamisole after the administration of 100 mg of levamisole orally. Levamisole and aminorex could be detected in post-administration urine samples. Levamisole could be detected up to 39 h after ingestion, while aminorex was detectable up to 54 h. Maximum aminorex concentrations were 45 ng/mL urine. Further metabolites of levamisole after oral ingestion by means of liquid chromatography hybrid quadrupole time-of-flight high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-QTOF-HRMS) were identified. Only 0.5 % of the ingested drug was quantified as unchanged levamisole in urine. Besides aminorex, five isomers of aminorex and 4 hydroxy-metabolites of aminorex or its isomers were found. Furthermore, levamisole is also hydroxylated and eliminated free or conjugated with sulfate or glucuronide into urine.
7781262	Pharmacokinetics of the novel antiestrogenic agent toremifene in subjects with altered liver and kidney function.	The pharmacokinetics of toremifene was investigated in an open study with four parallel groups of 10 subjects each. Subjects with impaired liver function (biopsy-proven liver disease), activated liver function (drug-induced), and impaired kidney function were compared with normal subjects. A single oral 120 mg dose of toremifene was administered after an overnight fast, and blood samples were collected over 28 days. Serum levels of toremifene and its metabolites were determined; appropriate pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated and statistically evaluated. In normal subjects, the average peak level of 414 ng/ml toremifene was achieved at 3 hours after dosing, the terminal half-life was 6.2 days, apparent oral clearance was 5.1 L/hr, apparent volume of distribution was 958 L, and the fraction not bound to protein was 0.3%. The peak level (130 ng/ml) of the major metabolite, N-demethyltoremifene, appeared in serum with large variation in the time to peak level (median, 3 days) and a terminal half-life of 21.0 days. Low levels of deaminohydroxytoremifene were also measured, and two other metabolites could be quantified at some time points in some patients. The elimination rate of toremifene and the main metabolite was significantly increased in patients with activated liver function, resulting in decreased terminal half-lives (3.0 days and 4.5 days, respectively), and was decreased in patients with impaired liver function (10.9 days and 29.6 days, respectively). The subjects with impaired kidney function showed normal elimination kinetics. Liver, but not kidney, function should be taken into account when toremifene is administered.
16545899	Inducibility of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1As by beta-naphthoflavone in HepG2 cells.	UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) are conjugation enzymes, which are regulated in a tissue-specific manner by endogenous and environmental factors. In this study, we focused on UGT1A isoforms (UGT1A1, UGT1A6 and UGT1A9), mainly expressed in the human liver, and examined the inducibility of UGT1As by beta-naphthoflavone (BNF) in human hepatoma HepG2 cells. The cells were pretreated for 72 h with BNF at concentrations of 25, 50 and 100 microM. 7-Ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) glucuronidation, used as a probe for UGT1A1, showed sigmoidal kinetics with a Hill coefficient (n) of 1.2-1.3 in control and BNF-pretreated HepG2 cells. The Vmax values were significantly increased 3.6- to 4.3-fold by BNF, whereas there was no significant change in the S50 values by BNF at any concentration examined. On the other hand, 4-methylumbelliferone (4-MU) glucuronidation as a probe for UGT1A6 and UGT1A9 in the control and BNF-pretreated HepG2 cells exhibited a biphasic kinetic pattern. Although Km1 values for the low-Km phase were similar between the control and BNF-pretreated HepG2 cells, Km2 values for the high-Km phase of BNF-pretreated HepG2 cells were reduced to 54-69% of control HepG2 cells. The values of Vmax1 and Vmax2 for the low- and high-Km phases, respectively, were significantly increased 1.9- to 2.6-fold by BNF at 25 and/or 50 microM but not 100 microM. With respect to Vmax (Vmax1 and Vmax2) and Vmax/Km (Vmax1/Km1 and Vmax2/Km2), the values were significantly increased 2.0- to 3.2-fold by BNF at all concentrations examined. Furthermore, real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction using TaqMan probes demonstrated that BNF concentration-dependently induced mRNA levels of UGT1A1 but not UGT1A6 or UGT1A9 in HepG2 cells (1.3- to 6.0-fold). These results suggest that the inducibility of UGT1A isoforms in HepG2 cells by BNF is different from other aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonists previously reported, and should provide useful information for the prediction of drug-drug interactions and toxicological assessment of environmental chemicals.
19406592	Determination of the metabolites of the new designer drugs bk-MBDB and bk-MDEA in human urine.	This is the first report on identifying the specific metabolites of the new designer drugs 2-methylamino-1-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)butan-1-one (bk-MBDB) and 2-ethylamino-1-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)propan-1-one (bk-MDEA) in human urine using synthesized standards. Based on GC/MS and LC/MS, we identified N-dealkylation, demethylenation followed by O-methylation, and beta-ketone reduction as their major metabolic pathways. The quantitative analyses by LC/MS revealed that both demethylenation followed by O-methylation and beta-ketone reduction were superior to N-dealkylation and that both bk-MBDB and bk-MDEA were mainly metabolized into their corresponding 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy metabolites (4-OH-3MeO metabolites). After hydrolysis, the concentrations of 4-OH-3MeO metabolites and 3-hydroxy-4-methoxy metabolites of both bk-MBDB and bk-MDEA dramatically increased, suggesting that the metabolites mainly exist as their conjugates.
6344869	S-methylation of captopril. Demonstration of captopril thiol methyltransferase activity in human erythrocytes and enzyme distribution in rat tissues.	The presence of a methyltransferase enzyme in human red blood cells (RBCs) capable of S-methylation of captopril is described. The apparent Michaelis-Menten (Km) constant for captopril was 0.5 mM and the maximum velocity (Vmax) was 0.391 pmoles S-methylcaptopril (mg protein)-1 min-1. There is some evidence presented to show that S-methylcaptopril inhibited its own formation with a ki value of 5.81 mM. Captopril thiol methyltransferase activity was also examined in rat tissues and was found to be present in all tissue studied. Subcellular localisation studies in rat liver suggest that the enzyme was microsomal in origin. The order of activity was liver greater than heart greater than spleen greater than lung greater than kidney much greater than RBC (rat). This tissue distribution was quite different from previous studies using other thiol substrates and is consistent with more than one form of thiol methyltransferase enzyme in tissues.
16815964	Characterization of the rhesus monkey CYP3A64 enzyme: species comparisons of CYP3A substrate specificity and kinetics using baculovirus-expressed recombinant enzymes.	The rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) is a primate species used extensively as a preclinical safety species in drug development. In this report, we describe the cloning, expression, and characterization of CYP3A64 (AY334551), a CYP3A4 homolog expressed in rhesus liver. The deduced amino acid sequence was found to be 93% similar to human CYP3A4, 83% similar to human CYP3A5, and identical to the previously reported cynomolgus monkey CYP3A8 (Komori et al., 1992). The substrate specificity of CYP3A64 for testosterone (0-250 microM), midazolam (0-200 microM), nifedipine (0-200 microM), and 7-benzoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin (0-200 microM) were compared with recombinant enzymes from rat (CYP3A1, CYP3A2), dog (CYP3A12, CYP3A26), rabbit (CYP3A6), and human (CYP3A4, CYP3A5). Immunoinhibition and chemical inhibition of CYP3A64 was demonstrated using the inhibitory monoclonal antibody (MAb) 10-1-1 (anti-3A4) and ketoconazole (0-10 microM). The utility of CYP3A64 to be used as a standard in monkey induction assays was shown and the concentration of CYP3A64 protein in rhesus liver microsomes was estimated to be 72 pmol/mg protein. In summary, these results support the utilization of rhesus monkey CYP3A64 for in vitro drug metabolism studies and provide a more complete understanding of CYP3A substrate specificities and species differences in metabolic capabilities.
17062777	Comparative metabolism of radiolabeled muraglitazar in animals and humans by quantitative and qualitative metabolite profiling.	Muraglitazar (Pargluva), a dual alpha/gamma peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) activator, has both glucose- and lipid-lowering effects in animal models and in patients with diabetes. This study describes the in vivo and in vitro comparative metabolism of [(14)C]muraglitazar in rats, dogs, monkeys, and humans by quantitative and qualitative metabolite profiling. Metabolite identification and quantification methods used in these studies included liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS), LC/tandem MS, LC/radiodetection, LC/UV, and a newly described mass defect filtering technique in conjunction with high resolution MS. After oral administration of [(14)C]muraglitazar, absorption was rapid in all species, reaching a concentration peak for parent and total radioactivity in plasma within 1 h. The most abundant component in plasma at all times in all species was the parent drug, and no metabolite was present in greater than 2.5% of the muraglitazar concentrations at 1 h postdose in rats, dogs, and humans. All metabolites observed in human plasma were also present in rats, dogs, or monkeys. Urinary excretion of radioactivity was low (<5% of the dose) in all intact species, and the primary route of elimination was via biliary excretion in rats, monkeys, and humans. Based on recovered doses in urine and bile, muraglitazar showed a very good absorption in rats, monkeys, and humans. The major drug-related components in bile of rats, monkeys, and humans were glucuronides of muraglitazar and its oxidative metabolites. The parent compound was a minor component in bile, suggesting extensive metabolism of the drug. In contrast, the parent drug and oxidative metabolites were the major components in feces, and no glucuronide conjugates were found, suggesting that glucuronide metabolites were excreted in bile and hydrolyzed in the gastrointestinal tract. The metabolites of muraglitazar resulted from both glucuronidation and oxidation. The metabolites in general had greatly reduced activity as PPARalpha/gamma activators relative to muraglitazar. In conclusion, muraglitazar was rapidly absorbed, extensively metabolized through glucuronidation and oxidation, and mainly eliminated in the feces via biliary excretion of glucuronide metabolites in all species studied. Disposition and metabolic pathways were qualitatively similar in rats, dogs, monkeys, and humans.
19007507	Urinary detection times and metabolite/parent compound ratios after a single dose of buprenorphine.	The objective was to estimate the detection times and metabolite/parent compound ratios in urine after a single dose of buprenorphine. Eighteen healthy volunteers received a single dose of 0.4 mg buprenorphine sublingually. Urine samples were collected prior to dosing and at 2, 4, 6, 8 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h post-dose. The samples were screened using cloned enzyme donor immunoassay (CEDIA) reagent and quantitation was performed with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) with a cut-off of 0.5 ng/mL for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. The mean time of continuous positive results was 9 h (range 4 to 24 h) with CEDIA, whereas for an LC-MS-MS method it was 76 h (range 23-96 h) for buprenorphine, and for norbuprenorphine all samples were positive at 96 h. Some subjects had positive CEDIA results after a negative sample, owing to differences in creatinine concentration. The time when the ratio norbuprenorphine/buprenorphine exceeded 1 was estimated at 7 h. The metabolite/parent ratio may be used to estimate the time of intake even though the individual ratios showed an increased variation the more distant the collection time. We believe that using this ratio, rather than the actual concentrations, it is possible to compensate for urine dilution and different doses, and to improve interpretation.
14709907	Effect of cefixime and cefdinir, oral cephalosporins, on cytochrome P450 activities in human hepatic microsomes.	The effects of two kinds of oral cephalosporins, cefixime and cefdinir, on cytochrome P450 (CYP) activities in human hepatic microsomes were investigated. Both cefixime and cefdinir at 2 mM concentration neither inhibited nor stimulated CYP1A1/2-mediated 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation, CYP2A6-mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylation, CYP2B6-mediated 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylation, CYP2C8/9-mediated tolbutamide methylhydroxylation, CYP2C19-mediated S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation, CYP2D6-mediated bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation, CYP2E1-mediated chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation, CYP3A4-mediated nifedipine oxidation, or CYP3A4-mediated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation. The free fractions of cefixime and cefdinir in the incubation mixture, which were measured by ultracentrifugation, were 86.1-93.8% and 94.1-97.8%, respectively. These results suggest that both cefixime and cefdinir would not cause clinically significant interactions with other drugs, which are metabolized by CYPs, via the inhibition of metabolism.
12412825	Sequential first-pass metabolism of nortilidine: the active metabolite of the synthetic opioid drug tilidine.	The disposition of nortildine, the active metabolite of the synthetic opioid drug tilidine, was investigated in healthy volunteers in a randomized, single-dose, three-way crossover design. Three different treatments were administered: tilidine 50 mg intravenously, tilidine 50 mg orally, and nortilidine 10 mg intravenously. The plasma concentrations of tilidine, nortilidine, and bisnortilidine were determined and subjected to pharmacokinetic analysis using noncompartmental methods. The systemic bioavailability of tilidine was low (7.6% +/- 5.3%) due to a pronounced first-pass metabolism. The areas under the plasma concentration versus time curves (A UC) of nortilidine were similar following either oral or intravenous administration of tilidine 50 mg (375 +/- 184 vs. 364 +/- 124 ng.h.ml(-1)). AUC of nortilidine was 229 +/- 42 ng.h.ml(-1) after IV infusion of nortilidine 10 mg and thus much greater than after IV tilidine corrected for differences in dose. Nortilidine had a much lower volume of distribution (275 +/- 79 vs. 1326 +/- 477 L) and a somewhat lower clearance (749 +/- 119 vs. 1198 +/- 228 ml/min) than tilidine. About two-thirds of the dose of tilidine was metabolized to nortilidine, although only half of the latter fraction was available in the peripheral circulation. Nortilidine was subsequently metabolized to bisnortilidine. The mean ratio of the AUC of bisnortilidine to nortilidine was 0.65 +/- 0.14 following IV administration of nortilidine but 1.69 +/- 0.38 and 1.40 +/- 0.27 following oral and intravenous administration of tilidine, respectively. The shapes of the plasma concentration-time curves of the metabolites and parent drug declined in parallel, indicating that the disposition of the metabolites is formation rate limited. Thus, although two-thirds of the dose of tilidine is metabolized to nortilidine, only one-third of the dose is available systemically as nortilidine for interaction with the opiate receptors after both intravenous and oral dosing of tilidine. The remaining part of nortilidine is retained in the liver and is subsequently metabolized to bisnortilidine and yet unknown compounds.
21610201	Safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamic properties of the GPR40 agonist TAK-875: results from a double-blind, placebo-controlled single oral dose rising study in healthy volunteers.	TAK-875 is a selective G-protein-coupled receptor 40 agonist in development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of TAK-875 following administration of a single oral dose of TAK-875 (25-800 mg) in 60 healthy volunteers. TAK-875 was eliminated slowly with a mean terminal elimination t(1/2) of approximately 28.1 to 36.6 hours. Systemic exposure of TAK-875 did not exhibit dose-proportional increases across the dose range evaluated due to a greater than proportional increase in exposure at doses greater than 200 mg. A preliminary food effect assessment indicated that coadministration of TAK-875 with a high-fat meal decreased C(max) of TAK-875 by 40% and AUC by 17%. Clinical adverse experiences were generally mild and transient. No dose-dependent pattern was observed. In healthy volunteers, no glucose-lowering effect and no increase in insulin or c-peptide secretion were evident following administration of TAK-875; the frequency of plasma glucose concentrations <70 mg/dL was similar in the TAK-875 and pooled placebo groups. TAK-875 was well tolerated in the study and has pharmacokinetic characteristics suitable for a once-daily regimen. The pharmacodynamic data support the notion that TAK-875, if effective in diabetic patients, may bear a low risk of hypoglycemia.
12101631	Development of a urinary biomarker for exposure to the organophosphate propetamphos: data from an oral and dermal human volunteer study.	Propetamphos is a member of the vinyl phosphate group of insecticides and is mainly used for sheep dipping. There have been no published metabolic studies on the effect of propetamphos in man to date, although the present authors have published the identification of a metabolite. The present paper presents data from a human volunteer study investigating the toxicokinetics of the organophosphorus pesticide propetamphos following oral and dermal exposure. Five volunteers ingested a propetamphos dose of 10 micrograms kg-1 (35 nmol kg-1) body weight. Following a washout of 4 weeks, a 100 mg (356 mumol) dermal dose of propetamphos was applied, occluded to 80 cm2 of the inner forearm, for 8 h to the same five volunteers. In a pilot study (several weeks before the main study), one volunteer also received an occluded dermal dose of 50 mg (178 mumol) propetamphos. Unabsorbed propetamphos on the skin was washed off after 8 h and collected. Blood and urine samples were collected over 30 and 54 h for the oral and dermal exposures respectively. Blood samples were analysed for plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase. Urine samples were analysed for a urinary metabolite of propetamphos: methylethylphosphoramidothioate (MEPT). Following oral and dermal exposure, peak urinary MEPT levels occurred at 1 and 10-12 h respectively. The apparent urinary elimination half-lives of MEPT had means of 1.7 h (oral exposure) and 3.8 h (dermal exposure). Approximately 40% of the oral dose and 1% of the dermal dose were recovered as urinary MEPT or metabolites, which could be hydrolysed to MEPT. Approximately 90% of the dermal dose was recovered from the skin washings. Data from a volunteer showed that a doubling of the dermal dose resulted in approximately double the concentration of total MEPT. Alkaline hydrolysis of urine samples increased the level of MEPT detected after both oral and dermal doses. The increase was greater and statistically significant (p < 0.001, paired t-test) for the dermal dose. This increase in MEPT suggests the presence of other MEPT-containing metabolites or conjugates. The difference in the increase between oral and dermal doses raises the question of a difference in metabolism between the two routes. No individual showed a significant depression compared with their pre-exposure levels of erythrocyte acetyl cholinesterase or plasma cholinesterase activity for either dosing route. However, on a group basis, there was a statistically significant mean depression in plasma cholinesterase activity at 8 and 24 h for oral exposure, with a maximum mean depression of 7% from pre-exposure levels at 8 h. Hydrolysis of urine samples had the effect of reducing the interindividual coefficient of variation (CV) for total excretion of MEPT following both oral (CV reduced from 36 to 8%) and dermal (CV reduced from 40 to 17%) exposure. The ability to detect and follow the elimination of low doses of propetamphos by measurement of 'total' (after hydrolysis) urinary MEPT suggests it is a suitable biomarker of propetamphos exposure. The comparatively short elimination half-lives suggest a strategy for biological monitoring of occupational exposure based on samples collected at the end of the shift.
22004671	Oral fluid drug testing of chronic pain patients. I. Positive prevalence rates of licit and illicit drugs.	Oral fluid compliance monitoring of chronic pain patients is an analytical challenge because of the limited specimen volume and the number of drugs that require detection. This study evaluated oral fluid for monitoring pain patients and compared results to urine studies of similar populations. Oral fluid specimens were analyzed from 6441 pain patients from 231 pain clinics in 20 states. Specimens were screened with 14 ELISA assays and non-negative specimens were confirmed by LC-MS-MS for 40 licit and illicit drugs and metabolites. There was an 83.9% positive screening rate (n=5401) of which 98.7% (n=5329) were confirmed at  LOQ concentrations for at least one analyte. The prevalence of confirmed positive drug groups was as follows: opiates > oxycodone > benzodiazepines > methadone  carisoprodol > fentanyl > cannabinoids  tramadol > cocaine > amphetamines  propoxyphene  buprenorphine > barbiturates > methamphetamine. Approximately 11.5% of the study population of pain patients apparently used one or more illicit drugs (cannabis, cocaine, methamphetamine and/or MDMA). Overall, the pattern of licit and illicit drugs and metabolites observed in oral fluid paralleled results reported earlier for urine, indicating that oral fluid is a viable option for use in compliance monitoring programs of chronic pain patients.
19330586	Increases in tobacco exposure biomarkers measured in non-smokers exposed to sidestream cigarette smoke under controlled conditions.	National surveys of the exposure of non-smokers to secondhand smoke based on serum cotinine analyses have consistently identified certain groups within the population including children, males and non-Hispanic Blacks as having relatively greater exposure. Although these differences in mean serum cotinine concentrations probably represent differences in exposure of individuals in their daily lives, it is also possible that metabolic or other differences in response might influence the results. To better define the nature of those findings, we have examined the response of 40 non-smokers including both men and women and African-Americans and whites to sidestream (SS) cigarette smoke generated by a smoking machine under controlled conditions. In this study, participants were exposed to aged, diluted SS smoke (ADSS) generated in an environmental chamber with a mean air nicotine concentration of 140 microg m(-3) and 8.6 ppm CO for 4 h. Salivary cotinine was measured every 30 min, and serum cotinine samples were taken prior to, and 2 h after exposure. Urinary nicotine metabolites and NNAL, a tobacco-specific nitrosamine, and 4-aminobiphenyl (4-AB) haemoglobin adducts were also measured prior to and 2 h following the exposure. Under these uniform, controlled conditions, we found a similar response to ADSS smoke exposure among all the participants. In all cases a significant increase in biomarker concentration was noted following exposure, and the short-term increases in salivary cotinine concentration were quite similar at approximately 12 pg ml(-1) min(-1) among the groups. In this small study, no significant differences by gender or race were seen in the mean increases observed in cotinine, NNAL or 4-AB adducts following 4 h of exposure. Thus, our results are most consistent with a relatively uniform response in tobacco biomarker concentrations following short-term exposure to ADSS tobacco smoke, and suggest that biomarker measurements are capable of effectively indicating increases in exposure among groups of non-smokers.
8033500	Effects of heme arginate on cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of drugs in patients with variegate porphyria and in healthy men.	We investigated the effects of heme on metabolism of coumarin, debrisoquin, caffeine, and lidocaine in seven female patients with variegate porphyria and in 10 healthy men. During baseline conditions metabolism of the drugs was identical in the two groups. Compared with the results without heme, a single infusion of heme arginate (3 mg/kg heme) significantly decreased the debrisoquin/4-hydroxy-debrisoquin metabolic ratio in subjects with porphyria (p = 0.016) and in the control subjects (p = 0.016) and increased formation of monoethylglycinexylidide from lidocaine (p = 0.016 and p = 0.004, respectively). Metabolism of coumarin and caffeine was not affected by heme. Our results show that, in patients with porphyria and in healthy subjects, exogenous heme is able to accelerate the reactions mediated by the cytochrome isozymes CYP2D6 (debrisoquin) and CYP3A4 (lidocaine) but not reactions mediated by CYP1A2 (caffeine) and CYP2A6 (coumarin). This suggests that influence of heme on drug metabolism is P450 isozyme-specific.
12399162	Predicting drug-induced agranulocytosis: characterizing neutrophil-generated metabolites of a model compound, DMP 406, and assessing the relevance of an in vitro apoptosis assay for identifying drugs that may cause agranulocytosis.	DMP 406 is a clozapine analogue developed by Dupont-Pharma for the treatment of schizophrenia. Unfortunately it caused agranulocytosis in dogs during preclinical studies. Clozapine also causes agranulocytosis and this is believed to be due to a reactive nitrenium ion metabolite produced by neutrophils. We studied the oxidation of DMP 406 by activated neutrophils and found that the major reactive species that is produced is not a nitrenium ion but rather an imine. This metabolite is similar to the reactive metabolite that has been proposed to be responsible for mianserin-induced agranulocytosis. Therefore we also studied the oxidation of mianserin by activated neutrophils and found that, although the major species is an iminium ion, it also bears a lactam moiety in the piperazine ring resulting from further oxidation. We usually find that HOCl is a good model system for the production of reactive metabolites of drugs that are formed by activated neutrophils, but in the case of both DMP 406 and mianserin, the products produced were significantly different than those formed by activated neutrophils. In contrast, the combination of horseradish peroxidase and hydrogen peroxide (HRP/H(2)O(2)) formed a very similar pattern of products, and this system was used to produce sufficient quantities of metabolites to allow for identification. The reactive metabolites of both DMP 406 and mianserin reacted with a range of nucleophiles, but in many cases the reaction was reversible. The best nucleophile for trapping these reactive metabolites was cyanide. It has been demonstrated that the products of clozapine oxidation by HRP/H(2)O(2), presumably the nitrenium ion, induced apoptosis in neutrophils at therapeutic concentrations of clozapine. It has been suggested that this process is involved in the mechanism of clozapine-induced agranulocytosis. We tested DMP 406 and mianserin in this system to see if the ability of a reactive metabolite of a drug to cause apoptosis could predict the ability of that drug to cause agranulocytosis. We used clozapine as a positive control and we also tested olanzapine, a drug that forms a reactive metabolite similar to that of clozapine but is given at a lower dose and does not cause agranulocytosis. We found that DMP 406 did not increase apoptosis at concentrations below 50 microM, and although mianserin did increase apoptosis at 10 microM this is above the therapeutic concentration. Olanzapine caused an increase in apoptosis at the same concentration as clozapine (1 microM), but because its therapeutic concentration is lower, this concentration was above the pharmacological range. There was no increase in apoptosis with any drug in the absence of HRP/H(2)O(2). These results indicate that this assay is unable to reliably predict the ability of different types of drugs to cause agranulocytosis. This is not a surprising result given that different drugs may induce agranulocytosis by different mechanisms.
1629290	Determination of ethyl biscoumacetate and its metabolite 7-hydroxyethyl biscoumacetate in human serum by high-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry.	An efficient reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method has been developed for the determination of ethyl biscoumacetate (EBA) and its metabolite in human serum, using the mu Bondapak C18 column and methanol-water-phosphoric acid (56:46.8:0.2, v/v/v) as the mobile phase. This method permitted the determination of both EBA and a metabolite in human serum. The latter has been mentioned by other authors only in urine samples, where significant concentrations were found. Identification of the metabolite as 7-hydroxyethyl biscoumacetate was based on its chromatographic separation, followed by isolation from the eluate and direct mass spectrometric identification. It has been found that the higher EBA concentrations in human serum described by Brodie et al. [J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 106 (1952) 453] were caused by the insufficient resolving power of the spectrophotometric method used, leading to overlapping of the UV spectra of the parent drug and its metabolite.
14985146	In vivo metabolism of the new designer drug 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MeOPP) in rat and identification of the human cytochrome P450 enzymes responsible for the major metabolic step.	1. The in vivo metabolism of 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MeOPP), a novel designer drug, was studied in male Wistar rats. 2. MeOPP was mainly O-demethylated to 1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)piperazine (4-HO-PP) in addition to degradation of the piperazine moiety. 3. O-demethylation, the major metabolic step, was studied with cDNA-expressed human hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in pooled human liver microsomes (pHLM) and in single donor human liver microsomes with CYP2D6 poor metabolizer genotype (PM HLM). 4. CYP2D6 catalysed O-demethylation with apparent Km and Vmax values of 48.34 +/- 14.48 microM and 5.44 +/- 0.47 pmol min(-1) pmol(-1) CYP, respectively. pHLM catalysed the monitored reaction with an apparent Km = 204.80 +/- 51.81 microM and Vmax = 127.50 +/- 13.25 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein. 5. The CYP2D6-specific chemical inhibitor quinidine (1 and 3 microM) significantly inhibited 4-HO-PP formation by 71.9 +/- 4.8% and by 98.5% +/- 0.5%, respectively, in incubation mixtures with pHLM and 200 microM MeOPP. 6. O-demethylation was significantly lower in PM HLM compared with pHLM (70.6% +/- 7.2%). 7. These data suggest that polymorphically expressed CYP2D6 is the enzyme mainly responsible for MeOPP O-demethylation.
11766168	Metabolic polymorphisms and urinary biomarkers in subjects with low benzene exposure.	The effect of some common metabolic polymorphisms on the rate of trans,trans-muconic acid (TMA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA) excretion was investigated in 169 policemen exposed to low benzene levels (<10 microg/m3) during the work shift. End-shift urinary concentrations of TMA and SPMA, normalized to unmetabolized blood benzene concentration, were used as indicators of individual metabolic capacity. CYP2E1, NQO1, GSTM1, and CSTT1 polymorphisms were analyzed in all subjects by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) restriction fragment length (RFL). The results obtained show significantly elevated levels of TMA and SPMA in urine of smokers compared to nonsmokers, whereas no correlation with environmental benzene was observed. TMA/blood benzene ratio was partially modulated by glutathione S-transferase (GST) genotypes, with significantly higher values in null individuals (GSTM1 and GSTT1 combined). However, a greater fraction of total variance of TMA/blood benzene in the study population was explained by other independent variables, that is, season of sampling, smoking habits, and gender. Variance in SPMA/blood benzene ratio was only associated with smoking and occupation, whereas no significant role was observed for the metabolic polymorphisms considered. These results suggest that in a population exposed to very low benzene concentrations, urinary TMA and SPMA levels are affected to a limited extent by metabolic polymorphisms, whereas other factors, such as gender, lifestyle, or other confounders, may account for a larger fraction of the interindividual variability of these biomarkers.
11457662	Isolation and characterization of the monkey UDP-glucuronosyltransferase cDNA clone monUGT1A01 active on bilirubin and estrogens.	Although enzymes that catalyze the formation of steroids are well known, less information is available about the enzymes involved in the metabolism of these hormones. Steroid glucuronidation, by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzymes, is one mechanism by which steroid hormones can be metabolized and eliminated from a tissue. Previous results suggest that the monkey represents the most appropriate animal model for studying the physiologic relevance of steroid glucuronidating enzymes. The monkey UGT1A01 cDNA clone was isolated by RT-PCR amplification of the liver RNA. The cDNA contains an open reading frame of 1599 bp encoding a protein of 533 residues. The primary structure of monkey UGT1A01 is 95% identical to human UGT1A1. To compare monkey and human UGT1A1 enzymes, both cDNA clones were transfected into HK293 cells and stable cell lines expressing each UGT1A1 protein were established. Western blot analysis of the monUGT1A01-HK293 and hUGT1A1-HK293 cell lines using a anti-UGT1A polyclonal antibody (RC-71) revealed expression of exogenous 55 kDa UGT1 proteins. The transferase activities of monkey and human UGT1A1 proteins were tested with over 60 compounds and were demonstrated to be active on the same compounds. For endogenous compounds only bilirubin and C18 steroids were glucuronidated by these enzymes. Using microsome preparation (from HK293 cell expressing monkey UGT1A01), the apparent K(m) values were 13, 5 and 6 microM for the conjugation of estradiol, 2-hydroxyestradiol and 2-hydroxyestrone, respectively, and were very similar to the values obtained with human UGT1A1. Specific RT-PCR analysis demonstrated the expression of monkey and human UGT1A1 transcripts in several tissues including liver, kidney, intestine, prostate, testis and ovary suggesting a contribution of this isoenzyme to estrogen metabolism in the cynomolgus monkey as in human.
20361924	Almond (Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb) polyphenols: from chemical characterization to targeted analysis of phenolic metabolites in humans.	In this paper, a survey of our studies on almond polyphenols including their chemical characterization and further bioavailability in humans is reported. Combination of analytical techniques (LC-DAD/fluorescence, LC/ESI-MS and MALDI-TOF-MS) allowed us, for the first time, the identification of A- and B-type procyanidin, propelargonidin and prodelphinidin polymers in almond skins. Glucuronide, O-methyl glucuronide, sulfate and O-methyl sulfate derivatives of (epi)catechin, as well as the glucuronide conjugates of naringenin and isorhamnetin, and sulfate conjugates of isorhamnetin, together with conjugates of hydroxyphenylvalerolactones were detected in plasma and urine samples after the intake of almond skin polyphenols. In addition, numerous microbial-derived metabolites, including hydroxyphenylpropionic, hydroxyphenylacetic, hydroxycinnamic, hydroxybenzoic and hydroxyhippuric acids were also identified. Depending of the type of metabolite, maximum urinary excretion was attained at different time in comparison to the control group in the course of the 24-h period of urine excretion, allowing us to establish the onset of microbial metabolism.
16680463	Irinotecan in combination with thalidomide in patients with advanced solid tumors: a clinical study with pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic evaluation.	Recent clinical studies have demonstrated a reduction of irinotecan (CPT-11) gastrointestinal toxicities when the CPT-11 is administered in combination with thalidomide in patients with diagnosis of colorectal cancer. The main purpose of this study was to investigate possible interactions between CPT-11 pharmacokinetics and thalidomide to explain the previously described gastrointestinal toxicity reduction. In our clinical trial, advanced cancer patients were treated with CPT-11 on a dose of 350 mg/m2 at day 1 every 3 weeks. Only at the first cycle, CPT-11 was administered in association with thalidomide on a dose of 400 mg/day given from day 1 to day 14. From the second cycle, the treatment was continued with irinotecan alone at the same dose. Pharmacokinetics analysis of irinotecan and its metabolites, SN-38 and SN-38-glucuronide, were performed at the first and second cycle. A total of 19 patients entered the study. The pharmacokinetic analysis were performed on 16 patients. Pharmacokinetic data suggested a decreased metabolism of irinotecan into SN-38 and SN-38-glucuronide when it was administered with thalidomide. Indeed, area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) of SN-38 was significantly lower at the first cycle than the second cycle (0.99+/-0.45 hxmicrog/ml vs 1.34+/-0.65, respectively, P=0.027) whereas AUC of irinotecan and SN-38-glucuronide were higher at first cycle than second cycle (34.53+/-11.38 hxmicrog/ml vs. 28.42+/-12.23 hxmicrog/ml, P=0.064 and 2.39+/-1.21 h(microg/ml vs. 1.86+/-1.11 hxmicrog/ml, P=0.018, respectively). Our study demonstrates a significant decreased metabolism of CPT-11 into the active metabolite SN-38 when CPT-11 is administered in association with thalidomide. These observations strongly suggest an interaction of thalidomide with CPT-11 metabolism and, at least in part, it might explain the previously described improvement in tolerability.
18937304	Simultaneous determination of benzodiazepines and their metabolites in human serum by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using a high-resolution octadecyl silica column compatible with aqueous compounds.	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method using a high-resolution octadecyl silica column compatible with aqueous compounds was developed for the simultaneous determination of benzodiazepines and their metabolites in human serum. This method enabled us to determine multiple benzodiazepines, including flurazepam, bromazepam, chlordiazepoxide, nitrazepam, clonazepam, flunitrazepam, estazolam, clobazam, lorazepam, alprazolam, triazolam, brotizolam, fludiazepam, diazepam, quazepam, prazepam and their metabolites such as 7-aminonitrazepam, 7-aminoclonazepam, 7-acetamidonitrazepam, N-desmethylclobazam and N-desmethyldiazepam. The analytes spiked into human serum were subjected to solid-phase extraction followed by liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. The running time was within 25 min for the measurement of 22 benzodiazepines and their metabolites. The recovery rates exceeded 58.1% for those compounds except for quazepam, which showed a recovery of 45.8%. The limit of detection ranged from 0.3 to 11.4 ng/mL. Linearity was satisfactory for all compounds. These data suggest that the present method can be applicable to routine assay for benzodiazepines in the clinical setting.
15285839	Ethanol inhibits in-vitro metabolism of nifedipine, triazolam and testosterone in human liver microsomes.	Although extended exposure to ethanol induces CYP3A metabolism in-vivo, the acute effects of ethanol on CYP3A metabolism have not been fully evaluated in-vitro. We assessed the effect of ethanol on CYP3A-mediated biotransformation using human liver microsomes in-vitro with three prototypic CYP3A-mediated reactions: nifedipine to oxidized nifedipine, triazolam to its 1-hydroxy (1-OH TRZ) and 4-hydroxy (4-OH TRZ) metabolites, and testosterone to 6beta-hydroxytestosterone (6beta-OH TST). Ethanol inhibited metabolism of nifedipine (oxidized nifedipine IC50 3 mg dL(-1), where the IC50 value is the inhibitor concentration corresponding to a 50% reduction in metabolite formation velocity), triazolam (1-OH TRZ IC50 1.1 mg dL(-1), 4-OH TRZ IC50 2.7 mg dL(-1)) and testosterone (6beta-OH TST IC50 2.4 mg dL(-1)). The inhibitory potency of ethanol was similar for the three substrates representing the three hypothetical CYP3A substrate categories. The IC50 values obtained were lower than clinically relevant blood alcohol concentrations. In conclusion, ethanol is an inhibitor of human CYP3A metabolism and may contribute to clinically important interactions.
22648561	Metabolism and pharmacokinetics of indacaterol in humans.	The metabolism, pharmacokinetics, and excretion of [(14)C]indacaterol were investigated in healthy male subjects. Although indacaterol is administered to patients via inhalation, the dose in this study was administered orally. This was done to avoid the complications and concerns associated with the administration of a radiolabeled compound via the inhalation route. The submilligram doses administered in this study made metabolite identification and structural elucidation by mass spectrometry especially challenging. In serum, the mean t(max), C(max), and AUC(0-last) values were 1.75 h, 0.47 ng/ml, and 1.81 ng  h/ml for indacaterol and 2.5 h, 1.4 ngEq/ml, and 27.2 ngEq  h/ml for total radioactivity. Unmodified indacaterol was the most abundant drug-related compound in the serum, contributing 30% to the total radioactivity in the AUC(0-24h) pools, whereas monohydroxylated indacaterol (P26.9), the glucuronide conjugate of P26.9 (P19), and the 8-O-glucuronide conjugate of indacaterol (P37) were the most abundant metabolites, with each contributing 4 to 13%. In addition, the N-glucuronide (2-amino) conjugate (P37.7) and two metabolites (P38.2 and P39) that resulted from the cleavage about the aminoethanol group linking the hydroxyquinolinone and diethylindane moieties had a combined contribution of 12.5%. For all four subjects in the study, 90% of the radioactivity dose was recovered in the excreta (85% in feces and 10% in urine, mean values). In feces, unmodified indacaterol and metabolite P26.9 were the most abundant drug-related compounds (54 and 17% of the dose, respectively). In urine, unmodified indacaterol accounted for 0.3% of the dose, with no single metabolite accounting for >1.3%.
7395524	Metabolism of lidocaine in human liver in vitro.	We have incubated the local anaesthetic drug lidocaine with microsomes from human adult livers. The metabolites deethylated lidocaine (MEGX) and aromatically hydroxylated lidocaine (3-hydroxylidocaine) were isolated by high performance liquid chromatography and quantitated by the liquid scintillation counting technique. The deethylation rate markedly exceeded the hydroxylation rate also at very low lidocaine concentrations. This pattern differs from that detected earlier with rat liver microsomes where aromatic hydroxylation is significant at low lidocaine concentrations, but it is similar to that in female guinea pig microsomes. These findings show the importance of performing this type of experiments also with human materials.
16885723	Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, 11-hydroxy-delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol and 11-nor-9-carboxy-delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol in human plasma after controlled oral administration of cannabinoids.	A clinical study to investigate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral tetrahydrocannabinol was performed. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject, inpatient study compared the effects of THC-containing hemp oils in liquid and capsule form to dronabinol (synthetic THC) in doses used for appetite stimulation. The National Institute on Drug Abuse Institutional Review Board approved the protocol and each participant provided informed consent. Detection times and concentrations of THC, 11-hydroxy-Delta-tetrahydrocannabinol (11-OH-THC), and 11-nor-9-carboxy-Delta-tetrahydrocannabinol (THCCOOH) in plasma were determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry [limits of quantification (LOQ)=0.5, 0.5, and 1.0 ng/mL, respectively] after oral THC administration. Six volunteers ingested liquid hemp oil (0.39 and 14.8 mg THC/d), hemp oil in capsules (0.47 mg THC/d), dronabinol capsules (7.5 mg THC/d), and placebo. Plasma specimens were collected during and after each dosing condition. THC and 11-OH-THC concentrations were low and never exceeded 6.1 ng/mL. Analytes were detectable 1.5 hour after initiating dosing with the 7.5 mg THC/d regimen and 4.5 hour after starting the 14.8 mg THC/d sessions. THCCOOH was detected 1.5 hour after the first dose, except for the 0.47 mg THC/d session, which required 4.5 hour for concentrations to reach the LOQ. THCCOOH concentrations peaked at 3.1 ng/mL during dosing with the low-dose hemp oils. Plasma THC and 11-OH-THC concentrations were negative for all participants at all doses within 15.5 hours after the last THC dose. Plasma THCCOOH persisted for at least 39.5 hours after the end of dosing and at much higher concentrations (up to 43.0 ng/mL). This study demonstrated that subjects who used high THC content hemp oil (347 mug/mL) as a dietary supplement had THC and metabolites in plasma in quantities comparable to those of patients using dronabinol for appetite stimulation. There was a significant correlation between body mass index and Cmax and body mass index and number of specimens positive for THC and 11-OH-THC.
16443667	Identification of human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes responsible for the metabolism of lonafarnib (Sarasar).	Lonafarnib (Sarasar), a farnesyl transferase inhibitor, is currently under development for the treatment of solid tumors. Incubation of lonafarnib with human liver microsomes resulted in the formation of four oxidative metabolites (M1, M2, M3, and M4). Minor to trace levels of these metabolites were detected in humans after multiple-dose administration of lonafarnib. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses exhibited a mass to charge ratio (m/z) for the (M+H)(+) ion of M1, M2, M3, and M4 at 653, 635, 669, and 653 Th, respectively. These metabolites, respectively, resulted from changes of +O, -2H, +2O, and +O relative to lonafarnib. Recombinant human CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of M1, M2, and M3, whereas CYP2C8 exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of M4. There was a high correlation between the formation of M1, determined in 10 human liver microsomal samples, and 6beta-hydroxylation of testosterone catalyzed by CYP3A4/5 (r = 0.93). The IC(50) values of ketoconazole for inhibition of M1 and M2 were 0.61 and 0.92 microM, respectively. The formation of M4 by human liver microsomes was inhibited 72% by 50 microM quercetin, suggesting that the formation of M4 was mediated via CYP2C8. A CYP3A4/5-specific inhibitory monoclonal antibody inhibited the formation of M1, M2, and M3 by 85, 75, and 100%, respectively. In conclusion, the formation of metabolites M1, M2, and M3 from lonafarnib was mediated via CYP3A4 and CYP3A5.
15306208	Drug-drug interactions of Z-338, a novel gastroprokinetic agent, with terfenadine, comparison with cisapride, and involvement of UGT1A9 and 1A8 in the human metabolism of Z-338.	In the present study, the inhibitory properties of N-[2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl]-2-[(2-hydroxy-4,5-dimethoxybenzoyl)amino]-1,3-thiazole-4-carboxamide monohydrochloride trihydrate (Z-338), a novel gastroprokinetic agent, were investigated and compared with those of cisapride to establish its potential for drug-drug interactions. There was no notable inhibition of terfenadine metabolism or of any of the isoforms of cytochrome P450 (CYP1A1/2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4) by Z-338 in in vitro studies using human liver microsomes. Z-338 was mainly metabolized to its glucuronide by UGT1A9 (UDP glucoronosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A9) and UGT1A8, and did not show marked inhibition of P-glycoprotein activity. On the other hand, cisapride strongly inhibited CYP3A4 and markedly inhibited CYP2C9. Furthermore, we used the whole-cell patch-clamp technique to investigate the effects of Z-338 and cisapride on potassium currents in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells transfected with the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG). Z-338 had no significant effect on hERG-related current at the relatively high concentration of 10 microM. In contrast, the inhibition by Z-338 was very small compared with that of cisapride at 10 nM, which was a thousand-fold lower concentration. In the prediction method for the drug interaction between terfenadine and cisapride based on the K(i) and PK parameters, we suggest the possibility that terfenadine mainly affect the QT interval, since its plasma concentration would be markedly increased, but cisapride may not be changed. Thus, in contrast with cisapride, Z-338 did not inhibit CYP and the hERG channel, and is predominantly metabolized by glucuronide conjugation, Z-338 is considered unlikely to cause significant drug-drug interactions when coadministered with CYP substrates at clinically effective doses.
11888011	Preliminary immunochemical test for the determination of ethyl glucuronide in serum and urine: comparison of screening method results with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Ethyl glucuronide is a highly specific metabolite of ethanol that is formed by enzymatic conjugation of ethanol with glucuronic acid. Because of its suitability as a marker of excessive alcohol consumption in serum with low blood-alcohol concentration and as a consumption marker in serum and urine, especially after the breakdown of ethanol, demand exists for a simple and fast analytical procedure, which is rarely possible using mass spectrometric determination methods. For this reason, we developed an immunochemical screening procedure (ELISA) in which polyclonal antibodies are bound to the walls of microtiter plates. To test suitability, 335 authentic serum and 186 urine samples were examined using immunochemistry and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The serum (urine) samples with cutoff values of 0.31 mg/L (1.33 mg/L) yielded false-negative results in 9.5% (24.3%) and false positives in 8.4% (23.2%) of cases. Specificity was calculated at 91.6% (76.8%) and sensitivity at 90.5% (75.7%). Test efficiency was 90.8% (76.3%). The study shows that ethyl glucuronide and therefore alcohol consumption can be detected in immunochemical screening of serum in a similar manner as current drugs, but the method is of limited value for urine. A GC-MS confirmation continues to remain a necessity.
12362922	Single-dose pharmacokinetics of nizatidine (Axid) in children.	The pharmacokinetics of nizatidine following a single 5.0 mg/kg oral dose given as an extemporaneous liquid formulation in apple juice was examined in 12 healthy children (8.0 +/- 2.4 years, 30.7 +/- 8.4 kg). Nizatidine and N-desmethylnizatidine were quantitated by HPLC/MS from five post dose blood samples taken over a 12-hour period. The apparent terminal elimination rate constant for nizatidine in the pediatric subjects (0.58 +/- 0.8h(-1)) was virtually identical to that (0.54 +/- 0.13 h(-1)) previously reported from adult studies. When corrected for an estimated 30% reduction in nizatidine oral bioavailability observed in adults upon coingestion of the drug with other fruit/vegetable juices, nizatidine pharmacokinetic parameter estimates (e.g., Cmax, CL/F, Vss/F) in our pediatric subjects were similar to those previously reported in adults who were administered dimensionally similar (e.g., approximately 4 mg/kg) solid oral doses of the drug. Examination of the mean area under the curve (i.e., AUC0-infinity for nizatidine and N-desmethylnizatidine suggested an approximate 15% metabolic conversion of the parent drug. Finally, nizatidine plasma concentrations in pediatric patients following a single 5.0 mg/kg oral dose exceeded the EC50 value of the drug for gastric acid suppression determined from adult studies for approximately 6 hours.
22511697	Observations on the urine metabolic ratio of oxymorphone to oxycodone in pain patients.	The object of this study was to evaluate the metabolism of oxycodone to oxymorphone in a pain patient population using a quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of 32,656 urine specimens obtained from pain patients between March 2008 and Feb 2010. The observed excretion was modeled using logarithmic transformation and approximated a Gaussian distribution. Oxycodone excretion into urine had a geometric mean of 1.93 mg/g of creatinine and oxymorphone had a value of 0.41 mg/g of creatinine. Increasing concentrations of oxycodone correlated with a smaller proportion of oxymorphone excretion suggesting saturation of oxycodone metabolism. Urine samples containing oxycodone without oxymorphone allowed an estimation of the proportion of poor metabolizers (2.4  2.1%) in the population. A similar analysis of samples containing oxymorphone without oxycodone gave an estimate of the proportion of ultra-rapid metabolizers (1.8  1.1%) in the population. Samples with concentrations of oxycodone above 10 mg/g of creatinine showed a sub-population of subjects with metabolic ratios roughly 100-fold less than the linear predictive model in this study. This study describes typical ranges for oxycodone and oxymorphone in urine, and showed that it is possible to identify fast or slow metabolizers who may be at risk for adverse events.
7646562	Glucuronidation in the Caco-2 human intestinal cell line: induction of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1*6.	The ability of the differentiated human intestinal cell line, Caco-2, to glucuronidate various endobiotic and xenobiotic molecules was investigated. Glucuronidation of hydroxylated or carboxylic acid compounds such as 1-naphthol, thymol, androsterone, estriol, hyodeoxycholic acid, lithocholic acid, chloramphenicol, paracetamol and morphine could be determined in microsomal fractions of Caco-2 cells. The activity toward 1-naphthol was the highest glucuronidation activity measured in Caco-2 cells. This activity was specifically increased four-fold upon addition of beta-naphthoflavone into culture medium but not by rifampicine or clofibrate and was related to a biosynthesis of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1*6 (UGT1*6). alpha-Naphthoflavone did not affect the inducing property of beta-naphthoflavone. 7-Ethoxyresorufin-O-dealkylation activity, supported by cytochrome P4501A1, was induced more than 1000-times in Caco-2 cells by beta-naphthoflavone treatment, and this effect was partially abolished by alpha-naphthoflavone treatment. The results suggest that several isoforms, including UGT1*6, are expressed in Caco-2 cells.
17409034	Analytical method for the quantitative determination of cyanuric acid as the degradation product of sodium dichloroisocyanurate in urine by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry.	A simple and selective analytical method for the quantitative determination of cyanuric acid, the degradation product of sodium dichloroisocyanurate (NaDCC), in human urine is reported herein. The sample preparation involved the use of diatomaceous earth extraction columns. Quantification was achieved by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry using negative ion electrospray with a cyano (CN) column. Between day relative standard deviation less than 10% (n=6) was obtained at the 5 mg L(-1) level. The assay was linear over the investigated range 0-20 mg L(-1) and the limit of detection (LOD) was confirmed to be 0.1 mg L(-1). The method was applied to monitoring levels of cyanuric acid in healthcare workers using disinfectants products containing NaDCC.
16540590	Comparative metabolism of geranyl nitrile and citronellyl nitrile in mouse, rat, and human hepatocytes.	Geranyl nitrile (GN) and citronellyl nitrile (CN) are fragrance components used in consumer and personal care products. Differences in the clastogenicity of these two terpenes are postulated to result from differential biotransformation, presumably involving the conjugated nitrile moiety. The metabolic clearance and biotransformation of GN and CN were compared in primary hepatocytes from mice, rats, and humans. For determination of intrinsic clearance, GN and CN were incubated with hepatocytes in sealed vials, and the headspace was sampled periodically by solid-phase microextraction and analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. For metabolite identification, GN and CN were incubated with hepatocytes from each species for 60 min, and reaction mixtures were extracted and analyzed by mass spectroscopy. Both GN and CN were rapidly metabolized in hepatocytes from all species (T1/2, 0.7-11.6 min). Within a species, intrinsic clearance was similar for both compounds and increased in the order human < rat << mouse. Major common pathways for biotransformation of GN and CN involved 1) epoxidation of the 6-alkenyl moiety followed by conjugation with glutathione, 2) hydroxylation of the terminal methyl group(s) followed by direct conjugation with glucuronic acid in rodents or further oxidation to the corresponding acid in human cells, and 3) hydroxylation of the allylic C5 position. No evidence for either phase I or phase II metabolism of the conjugated nitrile moiety was obtained. Thus, the presumed metabolic basis for differences in genotoxicity remains elusive.
23786350	Metabolism and disposition of [(14)C]dimethylamine borane in male Harlan Sprague Dawley rats following gavage administration, intravenous administration and dermal application.	1. Dimethylamine borane (DMAB) is used as a reducing agent in the manufacturing of a variety of products and in chemical synthesis. National Toxicology Program is evaluating the toxicity of DMAB in rodents following dermal application. The objective of this study was to evaluate the metabolism and disposition of DMAB in male Harlan Sprague Dawley (HSD) rats. 2. Disposition of radioactivity was similar between gavage and intravenous administration of 1.5mg/kg [(14)C] DMAB, with nearly 84%-89% of the administered radioactivity recovered in urine 24h post dosing. At 72h, only 1% or less was recovered in feces, 0.3% as CO2, and 0.5%-1.4% as volatiles and 0.3%-0.4 % in tissues. 3. The absorption of [(14)C]DMAB following dermal application was moderate; percent dose absorbed increased with the dose, with 23%, 32% and 46% of dose absorbed at 0.15, 1.5 and 15mg/kg, respectively. Urinary and fecal excretion ranged from 18%-37% and 2%-4% of dose, respectively, and 0.1%-0.2% as CO2, and 1%-3% as volatiles. Tissue retention of the radiolabel was low 1%, but was higher than following the gavage or intravenous administration. 4. Following co-adminsitration of DMAB and sodium nitrite by gavage, N-nitrosodimethylamine was not detected in blood or urine above the limit of quantitation of the analytical method of 10ng/mL. 5. Absorption of DMAB in fresh human skin in vitro was 41% of the applied dose: the analysis of the receptor fluid shows that the intact DMAB complex can be absorbed through the skin.
21105783	Characterization of metabolites and human P450 isoforms involved in the microsomal metabolism of mesaconitine.	Mesaconitine (MA), a major Aconitum alkaloid, provides effects against rheumatosis with high toxicity. To supply information for clinical safety, this study aims to investigate the metabolism of MA in male human liver microsomes (MHLMs) and the CYP isoforms involved in its metabolism. Metabolism studies were performed in vitro using MHLMs. Selective chemical inhibitors and recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes were used to confirm that the CYP isoforms contributed to MA metabolism. A total of nine metabolites were found and characterized in the MHLM incubations. The metabolic pathways were demethylation, dehydrogenation, hydroxylation, and demethylation-dehydrogenation. Results showed that the inhibitor of CYP3A had a strong inhibitory effect; the inhibitors of CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6 had modest inhibitory effects, whereas inhibitors of CYP1A2 and CYP2E1 had no obvious inhibitory effects on MA metabolism. Recombinant human cytochrome P450 isoforms CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 contributed greatly to the formation of MA metabolites, and CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 played a minor role in the formation of MA metabolites. MA could be transformed into at least nine metabolites in MHLMs. MA might be metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 in MHLMs.
15743975	In vitro metabolism study of buprenorphine: evidence for new metabolic pathways.	Buprenorphine (BUP) is a synthetic derivative of the morphine alkaloid thebaine. BUP is metabolized by N-dealkylation to form the active metabolite nor-buprenorphine (Nor-BUP), and both undergo subsequent glucuronidation. Although BUP has been used clinically for years, its metabolism has still not been fully elucidated. The aim of this study was to clarify the identity of the human hepatic cytochromes P450 (P450s) involved in BUP metabolism and to investigate other potential metabolites. The metabolism of BUP was examined using human liver microsomes (HLM) and Ad293 P450-transfected cell lines, as well as CYP 3A4 and 2C8 recombinant isoforms. The kinetic parameters of metabolite formation were calculated for HLM and competent isoforms. Individual contribution of P450 isoforms in BUP metabolism as well as Nor-BUP production was evaluated using chemical inhibition experiments, as well as the relative activity factor approach. The analytical method used was based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Among the 13 P450 isoforms tested, CYP 3A4, 2C8, 3A5, and 3A7 produced Nor-BUP. Based on the results of chemical inhibition, CYP 3A4 accounts for about 65% of Nor-BUP production and CYP 2C8 for about 30%. BUP utilization by either HLM or P450-transfected cells revealed that another oxidative metabolic pathway exists, which was found to involve CYP 2C9, 2C18, 2C19, and mainly CYP 3A. Incubation of BUP or Nor-BUP with HLM led to the formation of new metabolites, identified by tandem mass spectrometry as being hydroxy-BUP and hydroxy-Nor-BUP. Hydroxy-BUP was produced by the CYP 3A, but not the 2C isoforms.
8934307	Analysis and identification of zipeprol and its metabolites during drug abuse screening.	Zipeprol and its two main metabolites were identified in urine samples from drug abusers. Their analytical behavior during screening procedures for drugs of abuse was examined, and their basic thin-layer chromatographic and gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analytical parameters were determined.
1567786	Studies on anabolic steroids--8. GC/MS characterization of unusual seco acidic metabolites of oxymetholone in human urine.	One of the biotransformation routes of oxymetholone (17 beta-hydroxy-2-hydroxymethylene-17 alpha-methyl-5 alpha-androstan-3-one) in man leads to the formation of 17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-5 alpha-androstan-3-one (mestanolone). To demonstrate that this latter steroid may be formed by decarboxylation of an intermediate metabolite of oxymetholone bearing a 2-carboxylic group, we studied the urinary excretion of oxymetholone acidic metabolites. Five new acidic metabolites are reported here for the first time, among which four are unusual seco steroids resulting from the oxidative cleavage of the A-ring. The most abundant compound is 17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-2,3-seco-5 alpha-androstane-2,3-dioic acid 1, the cumulative excretion of which accounted for 1.52% of the dose. Three other seco diacids were produced in smaller amounts, namely 17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-2,3-seco-5 alpha-androstane-2,4- dicarboxylic acid 3, 17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-1,3-seco-5 alpha-androstane-1,3-dioic acid 4 and 17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-2,4-seco-5 alpha-androstane-2,4-dioic acid 5. The fifth acidic metabolite was identified as 3 alpha, 17 beta-dihydroxy-17 alpha-methyl-5 alpha-androstane-2 beta-carboxylic acid 2. The excretion in urine of these acidic metabolites suggests that the 2-hydroxymethylene group in oxymetholone is readily oxidized to yield the corresponding beta-keto acid which can be (1) decarboxylated to form mestanolone; (2) reduced at C-3 to give compound 2; and (3) further oxidized to afford the unexpected seco diacids 1, 3, 4 and 5. The identity of compounds 1 and 2 was ascertained by GC/MS and 1H and 13C-NMR analysis of reference compounds. The other metabolites were characterized by GC/MS analysis.
22960998	The effect of genetic polymorphisms in UGT2B15 on the pharmacokinetic profile of sipoglitazar, a novel anti-diabetic agent.	Sipoglitazar was a novel, azolealkanoic acid derivative that possesses selective activity for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) PPAR, PPAR, and PPAR. The compound undergoes phase II biotransformation by conjugation catalyzed by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). The aim of this analysis was to explore the influence of genetic polymorphism in UGT on the pharmacokinetics of sipoglitazar. Three preliminary phase I clinical pharmacology studies were conducted in tandem in healthy human subjects. Genotyping was undertaken in a total of 82 subjects in the phase I program for the purpose of genotyping UGT polymorphisms. Plasma samples were collected for up to 48 h post-dose to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile following a single oral dose of the drug. Plasma concentrations of sipoglitazar and the distribution of dose-normalized individual values for area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity (AUC(0-)) before any stratification were considerably skewed with a multi-modal distribution. The proportion of variability in AUC(0-) explained by UGT2B15 was 66.7 % (P < 0.0001); the addition of other genetic or demographic factors was not statistically significant. Subjects homozygous for the UGT2B15 D85Y variant (UGT2B15*2/*2) were exposed to greater plasma concentrations of sipoglitazar than subjects homozygous for the wild-type allele UGT2B15*1/*1 (3.26-fold higher) or heterozygous allele UGT2B15*1/*2 (2.16-fold higher). These results indicate that sipoglitazar clearance is substantially modified by UGT2B15 enzyme variants, with higher exposure observed in the UGT2B15*2/*2 genotype group.
18262417	Characterization of the two major CYP450 metabolites of ozonide (1,2,4-trioxolane) OZ277.	The antimalarial synthetic ozonide OZ277 (RBx11160) was hydroxylated by human liver microsomes at the distal bridgehead carbon atoms of the spiroadamantane substructure to form two carbinol metabolites devoid of antimalarial activity.
7929867	Digoxin disposition in elderly humans with hypochlorhydria.	Digoxin (D3) metabolism is partially mediated by the gastrointestinal tract via acid hydrolysis of digitoxose sugar moieties and bacterial reduction of the lactone. The hypothesis that hypochlorhydria influences digoxin disposition was tested in six normochlorhydric (NC) and four hypochlorhydric (HC) subjects. D3 tablets were administered daily for 19 to 28 days, and quantitative urine and fecal samples were collected over the last 3 days (steady state). Samples were analyzed for D3 and its extractable metabolites by fluorescence-derivatization HPLC. Excretion of D3 in urine increased from 37% of the dose in NC to 46% in HC, whereas excretion of D3 in feces decreased from 29 to 14%. These changes were statistically significant (P < .05) and consistent with decreased hydrolysis of D3 by stomach acid and increased intestinal metabolism in HC. In each subject, D3 was added to anaerobic cultures of both feces and jejunal fluid. Digoxin was reduced in all but two of the fecal incubates, and was not reduced in any jejunal fluid incubates. Because dihydrodigoxin (DHD3) was found in only two hypochlorhydric subjects, in vitro measures of bacterial reduction of D3 were not predictive of in vivo excretion of reduced metabolites. Sugar-hydrolyzed, reduced metabolites were not found in any subjects. It is concluded that D3 disposition is altered by hypochlorhydria, and that an understanding of the metabolic mechanisms requires further study.
17956893	Cinacalcet's effect on the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus, cyclosporine and mycophenolate in renal transplant recipients.	The calcimimetic drug cinacalcet offers a novel therapeutic option to treat post-transplant hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism; however, the interaction with calcineurin inhibitors and mycophenolate has not been evaluated. In the present study the effects of cinacalcet on the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine A (CsA), tacrolimus (Tac) and mycophenolate were investigated in 14 renal transplant recipients with stable renal function (mean creatinine 126.4 +/- 45.3 micromol/L). The patients were treated with either CsA (n = 8) or Tac (n = 6) in combination with mycophenolate/azathioprine and steroids. Twelve-hour pharmacokinetic investigations to measure CsA and its six main metabolites, Tac and mycophenolate concentrations were performed before and after 1-week treatment with 30 mg cinacalcet once daily. Cinacalcet treatment induced a significant 14.3 +/- 12.1% decrease in Tac AUC(0-12) (P = 0.039). Tac C(max), T(max) and T(1/2) also tended to decrease. The pharmacokinetics of CsA and mycophenolate were not significantly affected by concomitant treatment with cinacalcet. However, the secondary CsA metabolite, AM19, showed a significant increase of 9.0 +/- 9.5% during cinacalcet treatment (P = 0.040). Renal function decreased significantly from 78 +/- 11 to 72 +/- 12 mL/min (P = 0.019) and correlated with the increased levels of metabolite AM19 in the CsA group. Renal function was unchanged in the Tac group. Cinacalcet treatment showed a moderate effect on the Tac, but not CsA or mycophenolate, pharmacokinetics after 1-week concomitant treatment. This interaction appears to have minor clinical relevance. However, it is advisable to monitor renal function in CsA-treated patients due to the observed decrease in renal function.
17854155	Cyclopentenone prostaglandin, 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2, is metabolized by HepG2 cells via conjugation with glutathione.	15-deoxy-Delta12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15-d-PGJ2) is a dehydration product of PGD2. This compound possesses a highly reactive polyunsaturated carbonyl moiety that is a substrate for Michael addition with thiol-containing biomolecules such as glutathione and cysteine residues on proteins. By reacting with glutathione and proteins, 15-d-PGJ2 is believed to exert potent biological activity. Despite the large number of publications that have ascribed bioactivity to this molecule, it is not known to what extent 15-d-PGJ2 is formed in vivo. Levels of free 15-d-PGJ2 measured in human biological fluids such as urine are low, and the biological importance of this compound has thus been questioned. Because of its reactivity, we hypothesized that 15-d-PGJ2 is present in vivo primarily as a Michael conjugate. Therefore, we undertook a detailed study of the metabolism of this compound in HepG2 cells that are known to metabolize other cyclopentenone eicosanoids. We report that HepG2 cells primarily convert 15-d-PGJ2 to a glutathione conjugate in which the carbonyl at C-11 is reduced to a hydroxyl. Subsequently, the glutathione portion of the molecule is hydrolyzed with loss of glutamic acid and glycine resulting in a cysteine conjugate. These findings confirm a general route for the metabolism of cyclopentenone eicosanoids in HepG2 cells and may pave the way for new insights regarding the formation of 15-d-PGJ2 in vivo.
15685452	Significant induction of cyclophosphamide and thiotepa metabolism by phenytoin.	A 42-year-old male patient with relapsing germ-cell cancer was enrolled in a salvage protocol that employed two 4-day courses of CTC high-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (1,500 mg m(-2) day(-1)), thiotepa (120 mg m(-2) day(-1)), and carboplatin, followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell support. From five days before the start of the second CTC course the patient received phenytoin for generalized epileptic seizures. Blood samples were collected on day 1 of both CTC courses and analyzed for cyclophosphamide and its activated metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, and for thiotepa and its main active metabolite tepa. Exposure (expressed as area under the plasma concentration vs time curve) to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and tepa in the second CTC course was increased by 51% and 115%, respectively, compared with the first CTC course, whereas exposure to cyclophosphamide and thiotepa was significantly reduced (67% and 29%, respectively). Because high exposure to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and tepa correlates with increased toxicity, the treatment risk of this patient was significantly increased. Therefore doses were reduced on the third day of the second course. It was concluded that phenytoin significantly induces both cyclophosphamide and thiotepa metabolism, most probably by induction of the cytochrome p450 enzyme system. This potential clinical significant interaction should be taken into account when phenytoin is administered in combination with cyclophosphamide and thiotepa in clinical practice.
12185554	Effects of cigarette smoking on quinine pharmacokinetics in malaria.	Quinine is an important antimalarial drug that is metabolised mainly by the hepatic mixed-function microsomal enzyme cytochrome P(450). Cigarette smoking in healthy volunteers has been reported to enhance quinine clearance. The present study evaluated the effects of smoking on quinine pharmacokinetics in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria treated with a 7-day course of oral quinine. Of 22 studied male patients, 10 were regular smokers and 12 were non-smokers. All patients were treated with a 7-day oral regimen of quinine sulfate (10 mg salt/kg three times a day). Serial venous blood samples were taken for quinine levels before and during treatment at 12 h and 24 h and then daily until day 7. Plasma quinine and 3-hydroxyquinine concentrations were assayed using high-performance liquid chromatography. Quinine pharmacokinetics were evaluated using non-compartmental modelling. All patients recovered, and there were no significant differences in clinical responses or cure rates between the two studied groups ( P> or =0.32). The median (range) fever clearance time was 51 h (4-152 h) and mean (SD) parasite clearance time was 74+/-28 h. The overall median times to maximum concentrations of quinine and its main metabolite 3-hydroxyquinine were 1.5 days and 4.0 days, respectively. The maximum concentrations of quinine were approximately tenfold higher than 3-hydroxyquinine. There were no significant differences in any pharmacokinetic variables for the parent compound or metabolite between the two groups. The median area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve to day 7 (AUC(0-7)) of quinine in non-smokers was 67.0 micro g/ml/day and in smokers was 51.3 micro g/ml/day, and AUC(0-7) values of 3-hydroxyquinine were 6.2 micro g/ml/day and 4.8 micro g/ml/day, respectively. These results indicated that cigarette smoking has no significant effects on quinine pharmacokinetics or the therapeutic response in patients with falciparum malaria.
23729559	Utility of a column-switching LC/MS/MS method in cytochrome P450 inhibition assays using human liver microsomes.	Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS)-based in vitro cytochrome P450 (CYP) inhibition assays in pooled human liver microsomes using therapeutically relevant probe drugs are recommended by the US Food and Drug Administration to assess the potential for drug-drug interactions. As these assays are used routinely in pharmaceutical drug discovery screening of new chemical entities for drug interaction liabilities, there is a need to have higher analytical throughput. Column-switching methods may offer increased chromatographic throughput while maintaining the quality of data generated. In this study, the CYP3A4 inhibition assay was used as a potential application to demonstrate the performance of a dual-column parallel chromatographic system in a column-switching mode. Testosterone 6-hydroxylation was monitored and IC50 values of known CYP3A4 inhibitors were determined using conventional as well as column-switching LC/MS/MS methods. Mean IC50 values of ketoconazole, itraconazole and verapamil were 0.056, 0.061 and 23 M (conventional method) compared to 0.05, 0.057 and 26 M (column-switching method), respectively. The two different chromatographic methods resulted in IC50 values that were not statistically different and were within a twofold range, demonstrating reproducibility of results. Further, the column-switching method saved nearly 50% of analytical time in comparison to the conventional chromatographic method, indicating increased throughput leading to better utilization of mass spectrometer time without compromising the quality of data. Similar column-switching methods may be used for other isoforms as well and offer a convenient increased analytical throughput in CYP inhibition assays.
18255357	Validation of an HPLC-MS/MS method for the simultaneous determination of phenylmercapturic acid, benzylmercapturic acid and o-methylbenzyl mercapturic acid in urine as biomarkers of exposure to benzene, toluene and xylenes.	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed and fully validated, according to U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidance, for the simultaneous determination of phenylmercapturic acid, benzylmercapturic acid and o-methylbenzyl mercapturic acid in human urine as biomarkers of exposure to benzene, toluene and xylenes (BTX). After solid phase extraction and LC separation, samples were analyzed by a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer operated in negative ion mode, using isotope-labeled analogs as internal standards (ISs). The method meets all the validation criteria required. The limits of detection of the three analytes, ranging from 0.30 to 0.40microgl(-1), and the high throughput make the method suitable for the routine biological monitoring of co-exposure to BTX both in the occupational and environmental settings. The validated method was applied to assess exposure to BTX in a group of 354 urban traffic wardens.
21690265	Preclinical species and human disposition of PF-04971729, a selective inhibitor of the sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter 2 and clinical candidate for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.	(1S,2S,3S,4R,5S)-5-[4-Chloro-3-(4-ethoxybenzyl)phenyl]-1-hydroxymethyl-6,8-dioxabicyclo[3.2.1]octane-2,3,4-triol (PF-04971729), a potent and selective inhibitor of the sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter 2, is currently in phase 2 trials for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. This article describes the preclinical species and in vitro human disposition characteristics of PF-04971729 that were used in experiments performed to support the first-in-human study. Plasma clearance was low in rats (4.04 ml  min(-1)  kg(-1)) and dogs (1.64 ml  min(-1)  kg(-1)), resulting in half-lives of 4.10 and 7.63 h, respectively. Moderate to good bioavailability in rats (69%) and dogs (94%) was observed after oral dosing. The in vitro biotransformation profile of PF-04971729 in liver microsomes and cryopreserved hepatocytes from rat, dog, and human was qualitatively similar; prominent metabolic pathways included monohydroxylation, O-deethylation, and glucuronidation. No human-specific metabolites of PF-04971729 were detected in in vitro studies. Reaction phenotyping studies using recombinant enzymes indicated a role of CYP3A4/3A5, CYP2D6, and UGT1A9/2B7 in the metabolism of PF-04971729. No competitive or time-dependent inhibition of the major human cytochrome P450 enzymes was discerned with PF-04971729. Inhibitory effects against the organic cation transporter 2-mediated uptake of [(14)C]metformin by PF-04971729 also were very weak (IC(50) = 900 M). Single-species allometric scaling of rat pharmacokinetics of PF-04971729 was used to predict human clearance, distribution volume, and oral bioavailability. Human pharmacokinetic predictions were consistent with the potential for a low daily dose. First-in-human studies after oral administration indicated that the human pharmacokinetics/dose predictions for PF-04971729 were in the range that is likely to yield a favorable pharmacodynamic response.
17620345	Elimination of antiestrogenic effects of active tamoxifen metabolites by glucuronidation.	1-[4-(2-Dimethylaminoethoxy)-phenyl]-1,2-diphenylbut-1-(Z)-ene (tamoxifen, TAM) is a nonsteroidal antiestrogen that has been commonly used for the prevention and treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. TAM is extensively metabolized into several primary active metabolites including 4-hydroxy-TAM (4-OH-TAM) and endoxifen. Glucuronidation is the major phase II metabolic pathway important in their excretion. Whereas high antiestrogenic activity has been reported for both 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen, studies examining the effect of glucuronide conjugation of these metabolites have not previously been performed. In the present study, the antiestrogenic activities of glucuronidated TAM metabolites were determined by examining their effect on the induction of the estrogen-responsive progesterone receptor (PGR) gene. 17beta-Estradiol (E(2))-mediated PGR gene expression in MCF-7 cells was determined by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for each TAM metabolite isomer. E(2) (1 x 10(-10) M) induction of PGR mRNA was 6-fold after a 12-h incubation; only unconjugated TAM metabolites inhibited this effect. A virtually identical dose-dependent inhibition of E(2)-induced PGR gene expression was found for both the trans- and cis-isomers of 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen, with maximal inhibition attained at 1 x 10(-6) M of TAM metabolite. The glucuronide conjugates of all 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen isomers exhibited no effect on E(2)-mediated induction of PGR expression at all concentrations of TAM metabolite examined in this study. These data indicate that isomers of both 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen exhibit roughly equipotent antiestrogenic effects on E(2)-induced gene expression and that glucuronide conjugates of the same metabolites effectively negate this activity. This result may have important implications in terms of both whole-body and target tissue-specific glucuronidation pathways and individual responses to TAM therapy and cancer prevention.
12751634	Pathways and kinetics of deslorelin degradation in an airway epithelial cell line (Calu-1).	The objective of this study is to investigate the pathways and kinetics of degradation of deslorelin, pGlu1-His2-Trp3-Ser4-Tyr5-D-Trp6-Leu7-Arg8-ProNHEt9 (Des1-9), in a human airway epithelial cell line (Calu-1). The degradation of deslorelin in membrane and cytosolic fractions of Calu-1 cells was studied at 37 degrees C up to 24 h. The degradation products were separated using HPLC and identified by amino acid analysis, sequencing, and mass spectrometry. The rate constants for deslorelin degradation and the formation of degradation products were determined by fitting the concentration vs. time data to pharmacokinetic models using WinNonlin. The effect of enzyme inhibitors, captopril, phosphoramidon, and disodium EDTA on deslorelin degradation was also assessed. Des1-3, Des4-9, and Des5-9 were the deslorelin fragments detected in the membrane fraction. Apart from these degradation products. Des5-7 was also detected in the cytosolic fraction. The deslorelin degradation was 8.5 times faster in the cytosolic fraction compared to the membrane fraction. The disappearance of deslorelin and the kinetics of degradation products could be explained by simple 2 compartment iv bolus model and 1 compartment absorption model, respectively. EDTA and captopril decreased deslorelin degradation in the membrane and cytosolic fractions. Deslorelin is initially cleaved at the 3-4 bond in the membrane and cytosolic fractions, possibly by a metalloendopeptidase and/or angiotensin converting enzyme, with the degradation being more rapid in the cytosol.
12427108	Watercress has no Importance for the elimination of ethanol by CYP2E1 inhibition.	Watercress, a cruciferous vegetable, is known to inhibit the metabolism of several CYP2E1 substrates such as paracetamol and chlorzoxazone. Since ethanol and its metabolite, acetaldehyde, are CYP2E1 substrates, the influence of watercress on ethanol and acetaldehyde was investigated in healthy human volunteers. According to a randomized cross-over design, ethanol and acetaldehyde pharmacokinetic parameters were determined in 9 persons at 3 occasions: without watercress and after watercress ingestion preceding ethanol consumption from 1 or 10.5 hr, respectively. Ethanol tmax occurred significantly later when watercress was ingested 1 hr before ethanol ingestion. Likewise, acetaldehyde Cmax was significantly higher whereas acetaldehyde AUCs were increased by watercress but not significantly. All other ethanol and acetaldehyde pharmacokinetic parameters were similar between the 3 treatments. In healthy volunteers, no major watercress effect was observed on ethanol clearance but a weak inhibiting effect on acetaldehyde metabolism is possible. Ethanol absorption is also delayed by single ingestion of watercress immediately preceding ethanol consumption.
22071171	Methylation of catechins and procyanidins by rat and human catechol-O-methyltransferase: metabolite profiling and molecular modeling studies.	Catechins and procyanidins are major polyphenols in plant-derived foods. Despite intensive studies in recent years, neither their biochemical nor their toxicological properties have been clarified sufficiently. This study aimed to compare the methylation of catechins and procyanidins by the enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) in vitro. We conducted incubations with rat liver cytosol and human placental cytosol including S-adenosyl-l-methionine. The set of substrates comprised the catechins (-)-epicatechin (EC) and (+)-catechin (CAT), the procyanidin dimers B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, and B7 as well as procyanidin trimer C1. After extraction, metabolites were analyzed by means of liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization-mass spectrometry. EC and CAT were converted to two monomethylated metabolites each by human and rat COMT, with the 3'-O-methyl derivatives being consistently the main metabolites. Furthermore, the flavanyl units of procyanidins were methylated consecutively, leading to monomethylated and dimethylated dimeric metabolites as well as monomethylated, dimethylated, and trimethylated C1 metabolites. The methylation status of each flavanyl unit was determined by means of mass spectrometric quinone-methide fragmentation patterns. In addition, molecular modeling studies were performed with the aim to predict the preferred site of methylation and to verify the experimental data. In conclusion, our results indicate that the degree and position of methylation depend clearly on the three-dimensional structure of the entire substrate molecule.
21903155	Application of headspace solid phase dynamic extraction gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HS-SPDE-GC/MS) for biomonitoring of n-heptane and its metabolites in blood.	Solid phase dynamic extraction (SPDE) is an innovative sample preparation and enrichment technique in connection with gas chromatography (GC). Using SPDE, we developed a method for simultaneous determination of n-heptane and its mono-oxygenated metabolites heptane-4-one, 3-one, 2-one, 4-ol, 3-ol, 2-ol, and 1-ol in blood. After adjustment of various extraction and desorption parameters, method validation resulted in limits of detection (LOD) between 0.006 (heptane-4-one) and 0.021mg/L (heptane-1-ol). Intra-assay coefficients of variation ranged between 4.8% and 20.8% while relative recovery ranged between 100% and 117% (spiked concentration 0.128mg/L, n=8). The method was applied to blood samples, which have been collected from 20 volunteers after controlled inhalative exposure to 167, 333, and 500ppm n-heptane. After 3h of exposure, n-heptane and heptane-2-one were detectable in all samples in concentrations ranging up to 2.903 and 0.495mg/L, while the concentrations of the remaining analytes were closer to the respective LOD or even below. A significant linear relationship with ambient exposure (R(2)=0.701, p<0.001, n=55) was found for n-heptane in blood, which could be helpful for evaluation of biological exposure limits in future. Due to its high abundance in blood, 2-heptanone could be an interesting candidate as a biomarker also in alternative matrices such as urine or saliva.
12167562	Effects of bergamottin on human and monkey drug-metabolizing enzymes in primary cultured hepatocytes.	We investigated the effect of bergamottin, a major furanocoumarin in grapefruit juice, on phase I and phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes using cultured human and monkey hepatocytes. Both cultured systems were compared and evaluated for the direct effects of bergamottin as well as control treatments on liver enzymes. Treatment of hepatocytes with 0.1, 1, 5, and 10 microM bergamottin resulted in a concentration-dependent reduction in CYP3A4 activity (40-100%) in both human and monkey cells, as measured by testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylase activity. Bergamottin was potent at eliciting these inhibitory effects at both basal and induced states of CYP3A. Bergamottin (5 microM) completely inhibited alpha-naphthoflavone-induced ethoxyresorufin O-dealkylase (EROD) and methoxyresorufin O-dealkylase (MROD) activities in human hepatocytes and caused a 100% decrease in EROD activity in monkey hepatocytes. A 48-h exposure of cultured human hepatocytes to bergamottin resulted in increased levels of immunoreactive CYP3A4, CYP1A1, and CYP1A2 proteins, and CYP3A4, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and UDP-glucuronosyl transferase mRNAs. There was only a 20 to 30% reduction in glucuronidation and sulfation of 4-methylumbelliferone in human hepatocytes by 10 microM bergamottin and no effect on conjugation in the monkey hepatocytes. These results suggest that bergamottin causes both inhibition of CYP3A and CYP1A1/2 enzymatic activities and induction of correspondent proteins and mRNAs.
21924249	The antibiotics roseoflavin and 8-demethyl-8-amino-riboflavin from Streptomyces davawensis are metabolized by human flavokinase and human FAD synthetase.	The non-pathogenic Gram-positive soil bacterium Streptomyces davawensis synthesizes the riboflavin (vitamin B(2)) analogs roseoflavin (RoF) and 8-demethyl-8-amino-riboflavin (AF). Both compounds are antibiotics. Notably, a number of other riboflavin analogs are currently under investigation with regard to the development of novel antiinfectives. As a first step towards understanding the metabolism of riboflavin analogs in humans, the key enzymes flavokinase (EC 2.7.1.26) and FAD synthetase (EC 2.7.7.2) were studied. Human flavokinase efficiently converted RoF and AF to roseoflavin mononucleotide (RoFMN) and 8-demethyl-8-amino-riboflavin mononucleotide (AFMN), respectively. Human FAD synthetase accepted RoFMN but not AFMN as a substrate. Consequently, roseoflavin adenine dinucleotide (RoFAD) was synthesized by the latter enzyme but not 8-demethyl-8-amino-riboflavin adenine dinucleotide (AFAD). The cofactor analogs RoFMN, AFMN and RoFAD have different physicochemical properties as compared to FMN and FAD. Thus, the cofactor analogs have the potential to render flavoenzymes inactive, which may negatively affect human metabolism. RoF, but not AF, was found to inhibit human flavokinase. In summary, we suggest that AF has a lower toxic potential and may be better suited as a lead structure to develop antimicrobial compounds.
12069411	A liquid chromatographic-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometric method for determination of buprenorphine, its metabolite, norbuprenorphine, and a coformulant, naloxone, that is suitable for in vivo and in vitro metabolism studies.	A liquid chromatographic-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometric method has been developed and validated for determination of the antiabuse medication, buprenorphine, its primary metabolite, norbuprenorphine, and a proposed coformulant, naloxone. The method uses deuterated internal standards and a simple liquid-liquid extraction. Mass spectrometry employed selected reaction monitoring of the transitions of m/z 468 to 396 for buprenorphine, 472 to 400 for [2H4]buprenorphine, 414 to 101 for norbuprenorphine, 423 to 110 for [2H9]norbuprenorphine, 328 to 310 for naloxone, and 345 to 327 for its internal standard, [2H3]naltrexone. The method was accurate and precise across the dynamic range of 0.1 to 10 ng/ml. All analytes were stable in human plasma stored at room temperature for up to 24 h and after three freeze-thaw cycles. Reconstituted extracts were stable at -20 degrees C for up to 3 days. In human subjects receiving a sublingual tablet of 8 mg buprenorphine and 2 mg naloxone, buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were detected for up to 24 h with respective maximum concentrations at 1 and 1.5 h. Maximal concentrations ranged from 2.2 to 2.8 and 1.5 to 2.4 ng/ml for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, respectively (i.e., approximately 6 nM). The method detected norbuprenorphine formation in human liver microsomes incubated with 5-82 nM buprenorphine, which encompasses the therapeutic plasma concentration range. When cDNA-expressed P450s were incubated with 21 nM buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine formation was detected for P450s 3A4, as previously described, but also for 3A5, 3A7, and 2C8. Buprenorphine utilization generally exceeded norbuprenorphine formation, suggesting that P450s 2C18, 2C19, 2D6, and 2E1 may also be involved in buprenorphine metabolism to other products. These results suggest this method is suitable for both in vivo and in vitro studies of buprenorphine metabolism to norbuprenorphine.
1420457	Determination of gold-based antiarthritis drugs and their metabolites in urine by reversed-phase ion-pair chromatography with ICP-MS detection.	A sensitive method for the determination of gold-based drugs auranofin, myochrysine, and their metabolites has been developed. These gold-containing compounds were separated by reversed-phase ion-pair chromatography with tetrabutylammonium chloride as the ion-pairing agent. Gold-specific on-line detection utilized inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The separation conditions of pH, methanol content, concentration of the ion-pairing agent and ionic strength have been investigated. The detection limit for auranofin, the last peak in the chromatogram, was 0.3 ng. These methods were applied to the analysis of gold-containing species in urine from arthritis patients on auranofin, myochrysine or solganol therapy. The recovery of the total gold-containing species from urine was greater than 90%. Dicyanogold(I) anion, [Au(CN)2]-, was detected in the urine of several patients.
20382756	Regioselective glucuronidation of tanshinone iia after quinone reduction: identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, species differences, and interaction potential.	We have previously identified that the predominant metabolic pathway for tanshinone IIa (TSA) in rat is the NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)-mediated quinone reduction and subsequent glucuronidation. The present study contributes to further research on its glucuronidation enzyme kinetics, the identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms, and the interaction potential with typical UGT substrates. A pair of regioisomers (M1 and M2) of reduced TSA glucuronides was found from human, rat, and mouse, whereas only M1 was found in dog liver S9 incubations. The overall glucuronidation clearance of TSA in human liver S9 was 11.8 +/- 0.8 microl/min/mg protein, 0.7-, 0.8-, and 3-fold of that in the mouse, rat, and dog, respectively. Using intrinsic clearance M2/M1 as a regioselective index, opposite regioselectivity was found between human (0.7) and mouse (1.3), whereas no significant regioselectivity was found in rat. In a sequential metabolism system, by applying human liver cytosol as an NQO1 donor combined with a screening panel of 12 recombinant human UGTs, multiple UGTs were found involved in the M1 formation, whereas only UGT1A9 and, to a very minor extent, UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 contributed to the M2 formation. Further enzyme kinetics, correlation, and chemical inhibition studies confirmed that UGT1A9 played a major role in both M1 and M2 formation. In addition, TSA presented a potent inhibitory effect on the glucuronidation of typical UGT1A9 substrates propofol and mycophenolic acid, with an IC(50) value of 8.4 +/- 1.8 and 8.9 +/- 1.9 microM, respectively. This study will help to guide future studies on characterizing the NQO1-mediated reduction and subsequent glucuronidation of other quinones.
17218485	A metabolic screening study of trichostatin A (TSA) and TSA-like histone deacetylase inhibitors in rat and human primary hepatocyte cultures.	Hydroxamic acid (HA)-based histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, with trichostatin A (TSA) as the reference compound, are potential antitumoral drugs and show promise in the creation of long-term primary cell cultures. However, their metabolic properties have barely been investigated. TSA is rapidly inactivated in rodents both in vitro and in vivo. We previously found that 5-(4-dimethylaminobenzoyl)aminovaleric acid hydroxyamide or 4-Me2N-BAVAH (compound 1) is metabolically more stable upon incubation with rat hepatocyte suspensions. In this study, we show that human hepatocytes also metabolize TSA more rapidly than compound 1 and that similar pathways are involved. Furthermore, structural analogs of compound 1 (compounds 2-9) are reported to have the same favorable metabolic properties. Removal of the dimethylamino substituent of compound 1 creates a very stable but 50% less potent inhibitor. Chain lengthening (4 to 5 carbon spacer) slightly improves both potency and metabolic stability, favoring HA reduction to hydrolysis. On the other hand, Calpha-unsaturation and spacer methylation not only reduce HDAC inhibition but also increase the rate of metabolic inactivation approximately 2-fold, mainly through HA reduction. However, in rat hepatocyte monolayer cultures, compound 1 is shown to be extensively metabolized by phase II conjugation. In conclusion, this study suggests that simple structural modifications of amide-linked TSA analogs can improve their phase I metabolic stability in both rat and human hepatocyte suspensions. Phase II glucuronidation, however, can compensate for their lower phase I metabolism in rat hepatocyte monolayers and could play a yet unidentified role in the determination of their in vivo clearance.
16778713	Comparative bioavailability of the microemulsion formulation of cyclosporine (Neoral) with a generic dispersion formulation (Cicloral) in young healthy male volunteers.	The aim of this study was to compare the bioavailability of cyclosporine (CyA) from the generic dispersion formulation Cicloral (CIC) with the microemulsion formulation Neoral (NEO) and the original Sandimmune (SIM) capsules after single doses of 100, 300, or 600 mg of drug, respectively. The study was performed according to an open 3-period cross-over design with 12 young healthy male volunteers for each dosage. The concentrations of CyA and its main metabolites were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in whole blood and urine up to 48 hours postdosing. Peak concentrations and area under the time-concentration curve were greater for the NEO and CIC formulations compared with SIM, and the mean bioavailability of CIC was significantly (P<0.05) lower compared with NEO. The bioavailability of SIM compared with NEO was 54% to 71%, in agreement with previous results. Bioequivalence was not demonstrated between CIC (test) and NEO (reference) as the 90% confidence intervals were outside the 80% to 125% guidelines based on log-transformed AUCs, and were 75.2% to 87.7% at 100 mg, 79.2% to 91.8% at 300 mg, and 76.6% to 94.5% at 600 mg doses. The respective values for Cmax were 78.9% to 94.6%, 80.7% to 95.0%, and 71.4% to 84.1%. A good correlation was demonstrated between the urinary recovery of CyA and the AUC4. Therefore, the urinary recovery of CyA may be helpful as a surrogate parameter for the systemic exposure of patients to CyA. Whereas the relative amount of hydroxylated metabolites (AM1, AM9, AM1c) was similar for all formulations and doses, the urinary recovery of the N-demethylated metabolite AM4N decreased with increasing dose indicating saturable metabolism. No relationship could be demonstrated between CYP3A activity using dextromethorphan as a probe for the metabolic clearance of CyA.
7696540	Lauric acid as a model substrate for the simultaneous determination of cytochrome P450 2E1 and 4A in hepatic microsomes.	In vitro techniques have been utilized to investigate the microsomal enzymes involved in the metabolism of lauric acid and to establish conditions in which it can be used as a model substrate for both cytochrome P450 4A and cytochrome P450 2E1 in human liver microsomes. Studies of enzyme kinetics of lauric acid omega-hydroxylation in human liver microsomes indicated the involvement of more than one enzyme in this pathway, a relatively low Km enzyme with a Km of 22 microM +/- 12 (n = 8) and a high Km enzyme with a Km an order of magnitude higher (550 microM +/- 310, n = 7). The apparent Vmax for this component correlated with the rate of cyclosporin metabolism and was highly sensitive to ketoconazole inhibition. These results indicated that this enzyme was a member of the 3A subfamily. The activity associated with the low Km enzyme (P450 4A) did not correlate with P450 1A2, 2A6, 2C9/8, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A activities in a bank of human liver microsomes and was not appreciably inhibited by ketoconazole, furafylline, quinidine, sulfaphenazole, or diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC). Lauric acid omega-1 hydroxylation demonstrated simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics in each of the human liver microsomal samples examined, with a Km of 130 microM +/- 42 (n = 8). This activity was highly correlated with chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation in human liver microsomes (r = 0.98, n = 14, p < 0.001) and was inhibited by both DDC and chlorzoxazone. Additionally, rats treated with the P450 2E1 inducer isoniazid demonstrated a 3-fold increase in lauric acid omega-1 hydroxylation relative to the control group. Thus, the lauric acid hydroxylation assay, at a substrate concentration of 20 microM, appears to be an effective and specific P450 model substrate capable of determining simultaneously P450 4A and P450 2E1 related activities in hepatic microsomal samples.
7923572	Benzene metabolism by human liver microsomes in relation to cytochrome P450 2E1 activity.	Low levels of benzene from sources including cigarette smoke and automobile emissions are ubiquitous in the environment. Since the toxicity of benzene probably results from oxidative metabolites, an understanding of the profile of biotransformation of low levels of benzene is critical in making a valid risk assessment. To that end, we have investigated metabolism of a low concentration of [14C]benzene (3.4 microM) by microsomes from human, mouse and rat liver. The extent of phase I benzene metabolism by microsomal preparations from 10 human liver samples and single microsomal preparations from both mice and rats was then related to measured activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1. Measured CYP 2E1 activities, as determined by hydroxylation of p-nitrophenol, varied 13-fold (0.253-3.266 nmol/min/mg) for human samples. The fraction of benzene metabolized in 16 min ranged from 10% to 59%. Also at 16 min, significant amounts of oxidative metabolites were formed. Phenol was the main metabolite formed by all but two human microsomal preparations. In those samples, both of which had high CYP 2E1 activity, hydroquinone was the major metabolite formed. Both hydroquinone and catechol formation showed a direct correlation with CYP 2E1 activity over the range of activities present. A simulation model was developed based on a mechanism of competitive inhibition between benzene and its oxidized metabolites, and was fit to time-course data for three human liver preparations. Model calculations for initial rates of benzene metabolism ranging from 0.344 to 4.442 nmol/mg/min are directly proportional to measured CYP 2E1 activities. The model predicted the dependence of benzene metabolism on the measured CYP 2E1 activity in human liver samples, as well as in mouse and rat liver samples. These results suggest that differences in measured hepatic CYP 2E1 activity may be a major factor contributing to both interindividual and interspecies variations in hepatic metabolism of benzene. Validation of this system in vivo should lead to more accurate assessment of the risk of benzene's toxicity following low-level exposure.
7993983	The absence of a pharmacokinetic interaction between aspirin and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril in healthy volunteers.	Potential effects of the coadministration of single doses of aspirin (325 mg) and of benazepril hydrochloride (20 mg) on the pharmacokinetics and the metabolism of these two drugs were evaluated in 12 healthy subjects. Plasma concentration profiles of benazepril, its active metabolite benazeprilat, and total salicylic acid were determined together with urinary excretion of benazeprilat, salicylic acid, salicyluric acid, and salicylate glucuronides. Almost superimposable plasma profiles of benazepril, benazeprilat, and total salicylic acid were achieved with the drugs given alone and concomitantly. The coadministration of benazepril hydrochloride and aspirin did not modify the pharmacokinetics or the metabolism of the two drugs.
12670007	Fatal acute poisoning by bentazon.	A case of fatal suicidal bentazon poisoning is presented along with a description of the different analytical methods involved. A 56-year-old farmer was examined by the family doctor 1 h after voluntarily ingesting 500 mL of FIGHTER (bentazon, 480 g/L water). He presented a Glasgow score of 15, polypnea, diarrhea, and vomiting. During transport by ambulance to the hospital, he tossed, sweated, and suddenly presented breathing difficulty followed by heart failure. Tracheal intubation was impossible (H1.5) despite use of different diameter cannulas because of extreme general muscle rigidity. All attempts at resuscitation failed, and the patient died within 2 h postingestion. Blood and urine samples were taken just before death. General basic and neutral drug screening by high-performance liquid chromatography-diode-array detection and gas chromatography-nitrogen-phosphorus detection showed no strychnine or other drugs or toxics except for citalopram (< 0.1 mg/L) and bentazon, but this weak acidic molecule (pKa3.3) was badly extracted in alkaline conditions. Plasma and urine levels, measured after acidic extraction, protein precipitation, or simple dilution, were 1500 and 1000 mg/L, respectively. Bentazon (M.W. 240) was confirmed by its basic mass spectrum (ESI-, m/z 239, 197, 175, 132) or by that of methylated derivative (El+, m/z 254, 212, 175). An hydroxylated metabolite (ESI-, m/z 255, 213, 191, 148; El+, m/z 284, 242, 163) and the N1-glucuronide conjugate of bentazon (ESI-, m/z 415, 239) were also detected in urine. (Quantitation ions are underlined.) This first case of bentazon poisoning with available analytical data revealed the high toxicity of this compound after large dose ingestion with early and heavy symptoms such as muscle rigidity probably related to muscular toxicity. Comparison with another nonfatal case and with toxicological data on animals is discussed.
7820258	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of spironolactone and its major metabolite canrenone in urine using ultraviolet detection and column-switching.	A rapid and simple column liquid chromatographic method involving a column-switching system for the determination of spironolactone and its main metabolite canrenone in urine is described. Purification and concentration was performed using an Hypersil ODS-C18, 30 microns (20 x 2.1 mm I.D.) pre-column. The most polar urinary compounds were removed by washing the pre-column with water, and the analytes were subsequently switched to a LiChrospher RP C18, 5 microns (125 x 4 mm I.D.) analytical column and separated by means of an acetonitrile-water mobile-phase. Under the proposed conditions, the extraction efficiency was approximately 100% over the 0.5-10.0 micrograms/ml concentration range. The limits of detection were 20 ng/ml for both compounds. The proposed method has been applied to urine samples obtained after the oral administration of spironolactone.
17303175	Cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of tetrahydrocannabinols and cannabinol by human hepatic microsomes.	In this study, tetrahydrocannabinols (THCs) were mainly oxidized at the 11-position and allylic sites at the 7alpha-position for Delta(8)-THC and the 8beta-position for Delta(9)-THC by human hepatic microsomes. Cannabinol (CBN) was also mainly metabolized to 11-hydroxy-CBN and 8-hydroxy-CBN by the microsomes. The 11-hydroxylation of three cannabinoids by the microsomes was markedly inhibited by sulfaphenazole, a selective inhibitor of CYP2C enzymes, while the hydroxylations at the 7alpha-(Delta(8)-THC), 8beta-(Delta(9)-THC) and 8-positions (CBN) of the corresponding cannabinoids were highly inhibited by ketoconazole, a selective inhibitor of CYP3A enzymes. Human CYP2C9-Arg expressed in the microsomes of human B lymphoblastoid cells efficiently catalyzed the 11-hydroxylation of Delta(8)-THC (7.60 nmol/min/nmol CYP), Delta(9)-THC (19.2 nmol/min/nmol CYP) and CBN (6.62 nmol/min/nmol CYP). Human CYP3A4 expressed in the cells catalyzed the 7alpha-(5.34 nmol/min/nmol CYP) and 7beta-hydroxylation (1.39 nmol/min/nmol CYP) of Delta(8)-THC, the 8beta-hydroxylation (6.10 nmol/min/nmol CYP) and 9alpha,10alpha-epoxidation (1.71 nmol/min/nmol CYP) of Delta(9)-THC, and the 8-hydroxylation of CBN (1.45 nmol/min/nmol CYP). These results indicate that CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 are major enzymes involved in the 11-hydroxylation and the 8-(or the 7-) hydroxylation, respectively, of the cannabinoids by human hepatic microsomes. In addition, CYP3A4 is a major enzyme responsible for the 7alpha- and 7beta-hydroxylation of Delta(8)-THC, and the 9alpha,10alpha-epoxidation of Delta(9)-THC.
22820759	Di-n-butyl phthalate (DnBP) and diisobutyl phthalate (DiBP) metabolism in a human volunteer after single oral doses.	An individual (male, 36years, 87kg) ingested two separate doses of di-n-butyl phthalate (DnBP) and diisobutyl phthalate (DiBP) at a rate of ~60g/kg. Key monoester and oxidized metabolites were identified and quantified in urine continuously collected until 48h post-dose. For both DnBP and DiBP, the majority of the dose was excreted in the first 24h (92.2% of DnBP, 90.3% of DiBP), while only <1% of the dose was excreted in urine on day 2. In each case, the simple monoesters were the major metabolites (MnBP, 84%; MiBP, 71%). For DnBP, ~8% was excreted as various side chain oxidized metabolites. For DiBP, approximately 20% was excreted mainly as the oxidized side chain metabolite 2OH-MiBP, indicating that the extent of oxidative modification is around 2.5 times higher for DiBP than for DnBP. All DnBP and DiBP metabolites reached peak concentrations between 2 and 4h post-exposure, followed by a monotonic decline. For DnBP metabolites, the elimination halftime of MnBP was 2.6h; longer elimination halftimes were estimated for the oxidized metabolites (2.9-6.9h). For DiBP metabolites, MiBP had the shortest halftime (3.9h), and the oxidized metabolites had somewhat longer halftimes (4.1 and 4.2h). Together with the simple monoesters, secondary oxidized metabolites are additional and valuable biomarkers of phthalate exposure. This study provides basic human metabolism and toxicokinetic data for two phthalates that have to be considered human reproductive toxicants and that have been shown to be omnipresent in humans.
16965912	Phytoestrogens and their low dose combinations inhibit mRNA expression and activity of aromatase in human granulosa-luteal cells.	There is evidence that certain phytoestrogens inhibit aromatase, the enzyme that converts androgens to oestrogens. Kinetic studies in cell-free preparations show that they may inhibit aromatase by competitive binding to the enzyme, but there is a paucity of studies investigating longer-term effects of phytoestrogens on the expression of steroidogenic enzymes. This study tested the hypothesis that phytoestrogens could reduce aromatase activity by down-regulation of its expression. Experiments were carried out on primary cultures of human granulosa-luteal (GL) cells after they had been exposed to phytoestrogens for 48 h. Aromatase activity was measured by the ability of cells to convert testosterone to estradiol over a 4h period and aromatase mRNA expression (mRNA(arom)) was subsequently measured from the same cells using quantitative real-time PCR. The compounds investigated were the flavones, apigenin and quercetin, and the isoflavones, genistein, biochanin A and daidzein at doses of 10 microM and 100 nM. Combinations of these compounds at the lower dose were also investigated. All compounds tested dose-dependently reduced mean mRNA(arom) compared with controls. Apigenin was the most potent inhibitor with significant inhibition of mRNA(arom) seen at both 10 microM and 100 nM, whilst other flavonoids (except biochanin A) only induced significant inhibition (p<or=0.05) at the higher dose. Low dose (100 nM) mixtures of the compounds were ineffective except for a combination of the three isoflavones that induced a significant inhibition of mRNA(arom). The changes in aromatase activity paralleled the mRNA(arom) results and additional studies showed that the reduction in aromatase activity was significantly delayed in time compared with the reduction in mRNA(arom.) This is the first study to compare the action of various phytoestrogens, either singly or in low-dose combination, on the expression and activity of aromatase in human cells and it suggests that chronic dietary exposure and tissue accumulation of low-dose mixtures of phytoestrogens could have important consequences for aromatase activity and the production of oestrogens.
3988974	Amitriptyline and hydroxylated metabolite plasma levels in depressed outpatients.	As part of a double-blind clinical trial comparing phenelzine and amitriptyline in outpatients with predominantly major depressive disorder, plasma tricyclic antidepressant drug concentrations were measured in 83 amitriptyline-treated patients. In 29 of these patients, hydroxymetabolites were also assayed. Patients were treated for 6 weeks at a fixed dose of 150 mg/day of amitriptyline after the first 5 days. Therapeutic outcome was assessed with a structured depression interview schedule, the Symptom Checklist-90, a side effects checklist, and a global improvement scale. Steady state plasma levels of 10-hydroxynortriptyline were in the same range as amitriptyline or nortriptyline concentrations. Clinical response did not relate significantly to plasma levels of either the parent drug, its metabolites, or the sum of all four pharmacologically active substances. Minimum threshold tricyclic antidepressant levels for therapeutic effect were not found. Assay of its active hydroxymetabolites does not appear to improve the clinical utility of routine amitriptyline level monitoring in patients with major depression in an outpatient setting.
1897244	Characterization of the principal metabolite of quinine in human urine by 1H-n.m.r. spectroscopy.	1. The major metabolite of quinine in human urine, which is also the sole metabolite in human plasma and saliva, has been identified and characterized by chemical ionization mass spectrometry and 1H-n.m.r. spectrometry. 2. The mass spectrum showed that an oxygen atom is incorporated in the quinuclidine nucleus, and the exact position of the oxidation was established from the n.m.r. spectrum to be at the C-3 position.
23010851	Disposition and metabolism of 14C-dovitinib (TKI258), an inhibitor of FGFR and VEGFR, after oral administration in patients with advanced solid tumors.	This study investigated the metabolism and excretion of dovitinib (TKI258), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits fibroblast, vascular endothelial, and platelet-derived growth factor receptors, in patients with advanced solid tumors. Four patients (cohort 1) received a single 500 mg oral dose of (14)C-dovitinib, followed by the collection of blood, urine, and feces for 10days. Radioactivity concentrations were measured by liquid scintillation counting and plasma concentrations of dovitinib by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Both techniques were applied for metabolite profiling and identification. A continuous-dosing extension phase (nonlabeled dovitinib 400mg daily) was conducted with the 3 patients from cohort 1 and 9 additional patients from cohort 2. The majority of radioactivity was recovered in feces (mean 61%; range 52-69%), as compared with urine (mean 16%; range 13-21%). Only 6-19% of the radioactivity was recovered in feces as unchanged dovitinib, suggesting high oral absorption. (14)C-dovitinib was eliminated predominantly via oxidative metabolism, with prominent primary biotransformations including hydroxylation on the fluorobenzyl ring and N-oxidation and carbon oxidation on the methylpiperazine moiety. Dovitinib was the most prominent radioactive component in plasma. The high apparent volume of distribution (2,160 L) may indicate that dovitinib distributes extensively to tissues. Adverse events were predominantly mild to moderate, and most common events included nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, and fatigue. Dovitinib was well absorbed, extensively distributed, and eliminated mainly by oxidative metabolism, followed by excretion, predominantly in feces. The adverse events were as expected for this class of drug.
15608130	Development and validation of a high-throughput radiometric CYP3A4/5 inhibition assay using tritiated testosterone.	A rapid and sensitive radiometric assay for assessing the potential of drugs to inhibit cytochrome P450 (P450) 3A4/5 in human liver microsomes is described. In contrast to the conventional testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation assay, the new method does not require high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) separation and mass spectrometry. The assay is based on the release of tritium as tritiated water that occurs upon CYP3A4/5-mediated 6beta-hydroxylation of testosterone labeled with tritium in the 6beta position. The radiolabeled product is separated from the substrate using 96-well solid-phase extraction plates. Using commercially available [1,2,6,7-(3)H]testosterone as substrate, we demonstrated that the reaction is NADPH-dependent, and sensitive to CYP3A4/5/5 inhibitors and a CYP3A4/5/5-specific inhibitory monoclonal antibody, but not to inhibitors of or antibodies against other P450 enzymes. The method was further improved by synthesis of testosterone specifically tritiated in the 6beta position, which displayed greatly improved conversion rate with an ensuing increase in assay sensitivity. Competition experiments using tritiated and unlabeled testosterone indicated that CYP3A4/5-mediated 6beta-hydroxylation exhibits positive cooperativity and a modest kinetic isotope effect. IC(50) values for more than 40 structurally diverse chemical inhibitors were not significantly different from those determined in the testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation assay, using HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. All the steps of the new assay, namely, incubation, product separation, and radioactivity counting, are performed in 96-well format and can be automated. This assay thus represents a high-throughput version of the classical testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation assay, which is the most widely used method to assess the potential for CYP3A4/5 inhibition of new chemical entities.
20088510	Identification of metabolites in human plasma and urine after consumption of a polyphenol-rich juice drink.	A polyphenol-rich (P-R) juice drink was developed as a potential approach to increase intake of dietary polyphenols. Analysis of the beverage by HPLC with PDA, fluorescence, and MS detection facilitated the identification/partial identification of 40 flavonoids and related phenolic compounds. The main constituents were (-)-epigallocatechin and other green tea flavan-3-ols, phloretin-2'-O-glucoside, gallic acid, hesperetin-7-O-rutinoside, 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid, and procyanidins, with trace levels of several flavonols and purple grape juice anthocyanins also being present. Healthy human subjects (n = 10) consumed 350 mL of the P-R juice drink, after which plasma and urine samples were collected over a 0-24 h period. HPLC-MS analysis identified 13 metabolites in plasma and a further 20 in urine. Qualitatively, the profiles of the glucuronide, sulfated, and methylated metabolites were very similar to those detected in earlier investigations when the main components in the juice drink were consumed separately in feeding studies with coffee, green tea, orange juice, and apple cider.
16012074	Identification of human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of SCH 351125, a CCR5 antagonist.	The identification and relative contribution of human cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) involved in the metabolism of SCH 351125 were investigated. In human liver microsomes, O-deethylation was the major metabolic pathway, whereas aromatization of a piperidine ring to pyridine and the reduction of the N-oxide moiety were minor routes. Recombinant human CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 both exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of rotameric O-deethylated metabolites (M12, M13), the metabolites resulting from aromatization (M22/M24) and N-oxide reduction (M31). Using the relative activity factor (RAF) approach, the relative contributions of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 to M13 formation were estimated to be 76 and 24%, respectively. There was a high correlation (r>0.96) between the rate of formation of M12 and M13 and 6 beta-hydroxylation of testosterone catalysed by CYP3A4/5. Ketoconazole (2microM) and CYP3A4/5-specific inhibitory monoclonal antibody inhibited the formation of M12 and M13 from human liver microsomes by approximately 60 and 71%, respectively. The results demonstrate that the in vitro metabolism of SCH 351125 is mediated primarily via CYP3A4 and that CYP2C9 plays a minor role. Clinical study designs should encompass these enzymology data to address any potential drug interactions.
8780690	cDNA cloning and characterization of the human UDP glucuronosyltransferase, UGT1A3.	The cDNA encoding the UDP glucuronosyltransferase, UGT1A3, has been cloned and expressed in cell culture. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cDNA is 90% similar in sequence to that of a previously characterized form, UGT1A4 and to that of a third form, UGT1A5 whose function in unknown. UGT1A3, when expressed in COS cells has a relative molecular mass of 55 kDa and is active in the glucuronidation of estrone and 2-hydroxyestrone. Activity towards other polyhydroxylated estrogens including 4-hydroxyestrogen and estriol and its metabolites was not detected. UGT1A3 was also inactive towards androgens and their metabolites. The enzyme preferentially glucuronidated the N-hydroxy metabolite of 2-acetylaminofluorence and was more active towards the 6- and 12-hydroxylated metabolites of benzo[alpha]pyrene. RNA encoding UGT1A3 was detected in human liver and colon tissue.
15135088	Inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes participating in p-nitrophenol hydroxylation by drugs known as CYP2E1 inhibitors.	p-Nitrophenol hydroxylation is widely used as a probe for microsomal CYP2E1. Several drugs are known as CYP2E1 inhibitors because of their capability to inhibit p-nitrophenol hydroxylation. Our results suggest further participation of CYP2A6 and CYP2C19 enzymes in p-nitrophenol hydroxylation. Moreover, CYP2A6 and CYP2C19 may be considered as the primary catalysts, whereas CYP2E1 can also contribute to the hydroxylation of p-nitrophenol. Further aim of our study was to evaluate the selectivity of p-nitrophenol hydroxylase inhibitors towards cytochrome P450 enzymes. The effects of antifungals: bifonazole, econazole, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, miconazole; CNS-active drugs: chlorpromazine, desipramine, fluphenazine, thioridazine; and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug: diclofenac were investigated on the enzyme activities selective for CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4. None of the drugs could be considered as a potent inhibitor of CYP2E1. Strong inhibition was observed for CYP3A4 by antifungals with IC(50) values in submicromolar range. However, ketoconazole was the only imidazole derivative that could be considered as a selective inhibitor of CYP3A4. The CNS-active drugs investigated were found to be weak inhibitors of CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4. Diclofenac efficiently inhibited CYP2C9 and to a less extent CYP3A4 enzyme.
19059745	Simultaneous determination of rupatadine and its metabolite desloratadine in human plasma by a sensitive LC-MS/MS method: application to the pharmacokinetic study in healthy Chinese volunteers.	A sensitive liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed for simultaneous determination of rupatadine and its metabolite desloratadine in human plasma. After the addition of diphenhydramine, the internal standard (IS), plasma samples were extracted with a mixture of methyl tert-butyl ether and n-hexane (1:1, v/v). The analysis was performed on a Ultimate AQ-C18 (4.6mm x 100mm, 5microm) column using a mobile phase consisting of a 80/20 mixture of methanol/water containing 0.0005% formic acid pumped at 0.3mlmin(-1). The analytes and the IS were detected in positive ionization mode and monitoring their precursor-->product ion combinations of m/z 416-->309, 311-->259, and 256-->167, respectively, in multiple reaction monitoring mode. The linear ranges of the assay were 0.1-50 and 0.1-20ngml(-1) for rupatadine and desloratadine, respectively. The lower limits of reliable quantification for both rupatadine and desloratadine were 0.1ngml(-1), which offered high sensitivity and selectivity. The within- and between-run precision was less than 7.2%. The accuracy ranged from -9.2% to +6.4% and -7.2% to +7.2% for rupatadine and desloratadine in quality control samples at three levels, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study of rupatadine and its major metabolite after oral administration of 10, 20 and 40mg rupatadine tablets to healthy Chinese volunteers.
11204218	Simultaneous determination of cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A simple and sensitive HPLC method for the simultaneous determination of cefotaxime (I) and desacetylcefotaxime (II) in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is described. The assay involves deproteinisation and subsequent separation on a reversed-phase HPLC column, with ultraviolet detection at 262 nm. Retention times were 6.8 and 2.2 min for cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime, respectively. Average recoveries for the analytes were 78% (I) and 88% (II) from both matrices. Linear responses were observed over a wide range (0.58-940 microg/ml for (I) in plasma, 0.80-55.8 microg/ml for (I) in CSF, 0.54-148 microg/ml for (II) in plasma and 0.50-36.0 microg/ml for (II) in CSF).
9013293	Comparison of RapiTest with Emit d.a.u. and GC-MS for the analysis of drugs in urine.	Results obtained with RapiTest THC (One Step delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol Test), RapiTest MOP (One Step Morphine Test), RapiTest MET (One Step Methamphetamine Test), and RapiTest COC (One Step Cocaine Test) were compared with the results obtained with Emit d.a.u. and with gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) methods. In all, 81 urine samples taken from specimens submitted for routine analysis in the Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology were analyzed. Samples were screened with Emit, reanalyzed by RapiTests, and quantitated using GC-MS methods. Both positive and negative urine samples were tested. The results obtained with RapiTests correlated well with the Emit d.a.u. and GC-MS data when operating above the cutoff concentrations specified for these methods. RapiTest MOP was found to have crossreactivity with codeine and ethylmorphine, and RapiTest MET crossreacted with amphetamine.
19797535	The effects of a short course of antibiotics on alvimopan and metabolite pharmacokinetics.	Alvimopan is a novel, oral, peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor (PAM-OR) antagonist that blocks the effects of opioids on the gastrointestinal tract, without blocking opioid-induced analgesic effects. It is metabolized by gut microflora to an active amide-hydrolysis metabolite, which is equipotent to alvimopan. The objective of this study was to characterize the pharmacokinetics of alvimopan and metabolite before, during, and after administration of a short course of antibiotics in healthy adult participants. Simulations were conducted to determine the feasibility for this study. An open-label, sequential drug interaction study was conducted in 45 participants who received twice-daily dosing of alvimopan with and without ciprofloxacin. Metabolite concentrations were reduced by 99.2% (90% confidence interval: 98.8-99.5) in the presence of ciprofloxacin. The interaction occurred rapidly, and recovery was slow. The interaction may be of relevance for patients with relatively high metabolite plasma concentrations prior to antibiotic administration but of little relevance for patients with little or no plasma metabolite exposure initially. Administration of ciprofloxacin decreased alvimopan C(max) by 24%, which is of no clinical relevance. There was no effect of ciprofloxacin on alvimopan trough concentrations or AUC. Alvimopan was well tolerated.
11863280	Enantioselective analysis of atenolol in biologic fluids: comparison of liquid-liquid and solid-phase extraction methods.	In this study we evaluated a liquid-liquid extraction procedure and a solid-phase extraction procedure for sample preparation for the enantioselective analysis of atenolol in plasma and urine by high-performance liquid chromatography. A Chiralcel OD-H column was used for the resolution of atenolol enantiomers with hexane-ethanol (85:15, v/v) plus 0.1% diethylamine as the mobile phase. In the liquid-liquid extraction procedure, atenolol was extracted from alkalinized body fluids with 5 ml chloroform-2-propanol (4:1, v/v). In the solid-phase extraction procedure, atenolol was isolated from plasma using a C8 column and methanol. Both extraction procedures were efficient in recovering atenolol and removing endogenous interferents. The RSDs and deviation from nominal values were lower than 10% for both within-day and between-day assays. The results show that there were no statistically significant differences in between-day variation. The t-test showed that there were no significant differences between the real concentrations and the determined concentrations. The limit of quantitation was 10 ng/ml and the linear range was 10-5,000 ng/ml for both methods. These methods can be used in pharmacokinetic studies.
11471772	The influence of CYP2D6 polymorphism on the antiarrhythmic efficacy of propafenone in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 3 months propafenone prophylactic treatment.	Propafenone (PPF) is an antiarrhythmic, Class Ic agent. Its metabolism is genetically controlled by a cytochrome P450 isoenzyme named CYP2D6, which shows polymorphism in human population. The aim of this paper was to determine the correlation between the antiarrhythmic efficacy of PPF and the oxidation phenotype. SUBJECTS AND MATERIAL: The study group consisted of 42 patients, aged 36 to 75 years, suffering from paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF). The oxidation phenotype was described by the metabolic ratio (MR) of sparteine. The MR value separated the group of poor metabolizers (MR > 20) from the group of extensive metabolizers (MR < 20) with the subgroup of very extensive metabolizers (MR < 1). The study was conducted during a 3-month PPF therapy for the prophylaxis of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. PPF was given orally, 300-450 mg/day. The oxidation phenotype was checked prior to the administration of PPF. Serum concentration of PPF at 7, 11 days and the end of PPF therapy were determined. Statistical analysis of data was performed with the chi2 test and the Pearson's correlation methods. In the group of 42 patients, PPF therapy was 100% effective in poor metabolizers (PM). In extensive metabolizers (EM), 61% efficacy was observed with efficacy 0% in very extensive metabolizers (VEM). The correlation between oxidation phenotype and the ability to maintain sinus rhythm (SR) was statistically significant (r = 0.414, p < 0.05). The antiarrhythmic efficacy of propafenone depends on the oxidation phenotype; 100% efficacy occurred in the group of poor metabolizers whereas PPF, at the dose tested, was ineffective in very extensive metabolizers.
14648608	Simultaneous quantitative analysis of ketanserin and ketanserinol in plasma by RP-HPLC with fluorescence detection.	A sensitive and selective high-performance liquid chromatographic assay for the quantification of ketanserin and ketanserinol in human plasma was developed and validated. The procedure involves extraction of ketanserin and ketanserinol from plasma using an Extrelut NT-1 solid-phase extraction column. The chromatograph was equipped with a Hypersil BDS column (100 x 4.5 mm, 3 micro m particle size). Separation was performed with a mixture of acetate buffer 0.01 M, pH 4.9-methanol-acetonitrile (52:40:8, v/v/v). Detection was performed with fluorescence detection (lambda(ex) = 332 nm and lambda(em) = 410 nm). Calibration curves were linear (r(2) = 0.999) in the range 0-400 ng/mL for both ketanserin and ketanserinol. The repeatability coefficient for ketanserin and ketanserinol was 3.1 and 3.0%, respectively. The reproducibility coefficient for ketanserin and ketanserinol was 10.5 and 9.1%, respectively. The limit of quantification for both ketanserin and ketanserinol was 2.0 ng/mL. The mean recovery yield for both ketanserin and ketanserinol was 60%. In an 8 h work day approximately 60 samples, including calibration and reference standards, could be processed.
11950781	3-O-methyldobutamine, a major metabolite of dobutamine in humans.	Dobutamine is a synthetic ionotropic catecholamine commonly used to treat heart failure and shock. The catabolic fate of dobutamine in humans has yet to be reported, although formation of 3-O-methyldobutamine represents the principal pathway of dobutamine disposition in the dog. Herein, we describe the isolation and identification of 3-O-methyldobutamine in the urine of children receiving infusions of racemic dobutamine. In a 9-year-old child with heart failure approximately 80% of dobutamine administered intravenously at steady state was detected in the urine. Forty-seven percent of infused dobutamine was identified as 3-O-methyldobutamine and its acid-hydrolyzed derivatives, the latter mostly conjugated with sulfate (33%). Thirty-two percent consisted of acid-hydrolyzed dobutamine metabolites, primarily conjugated with sulfate (16%). Sonicates of human blood mononuclear cells catalyzed the formation of 3-O-methyldobutamine from dobutamine and S-adenosylmethionine in vitro. These findings indicate that formation of 3-O-methyldobutamine constitutes a major pathway of dobutamine metabolism in humans.
1381906	Species differences and interindividual variation in liver microsomal cytochrome P450 2A enzymes: effects on coumarin, dicumarol, and testosterone oxidation.	Antibody against purified CYP2A1 recognizes two rat liver microsomal P450 enzymes, CYP2A1 and CYP2A2, that catalyze the 7 alpha- and 15 alpha-hydroxylation of testosterone, respectively. In human liver microsomes, this antibody recognizes a single protein, namely CYP2A6, which catalyzes the 7-hydroxylation of coumarin. To examine species differences in CYP2A function, liver microsomes from nine mammalian species (rat, mouse, hamster, rabbit, guinea pig, cat, dog, cynomolgus monkey, and human) were tested for their ability to catalyze the 7 alpha- and 15 alpha-hydroxylation of testosterone and the 7-hydroxylation of coumarin. Antibody against rat CYP2A1 recognized one or more proteins in liver microsomes from all mammalian species examined. However, liver microsomes from cat, dog, cynomolgus monkey, and human catalyzed negligible rates of testosterone 7 alpha- and/or 15 alpha-hydroxylation, whereas rat and cat liver microsomes catalyzed negligible rates of coumarin 7-hydroxylation. Formation of 7-hydroxycoumarin accounted for a different proportion of the coumarin metabolites formed by liver microsomes from each of the various species examined. 7-Hydroxycoumarin was the major metabolite (greater than 70%) in human and monkey, but only a minor metabolite (less than 1%) in rat. The 7-hydroxylation of coumarin by human liver microsomes was catalyzed by a single, high-affinity enzyme (Km 0.2-0.6 microM), which was markedly inhibited (greater than 95%) by antibody against rat CYP2A1. The rate of coumarin 7-hydroxylation varied approximately 17-fold among liver microsomes from 22 human subjects. This variation was highly correlated (r2 = 0.956) with interindividual differences in the levels of CYP2A6, as determined by immunoblotting. These results indicate that CYP2A6 is largely or entirely responsible for catalyzing the 7-hydroxylation of coumarin in human liver microsomes. Treatment of monkeys with phenobarbital or dexamethasone increased coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity, whereas treatment with beta-naphthoflavone caused a slight decrease. These results suggest that environmental factors can increase or decrease CYP2A expression in cynomolgus monkeys, which implies that environmental factors may be responsible for the large variation in CYP2A6 levels in humans, although genetic factors may also be important. In contrast to rats and mice, the expression of CYP2A enzymes in cynomolgus monkeys and humans was not sexually differentiated. Despite their structural similarity to coumarin, the anticoagulants dicumarol and warfarin do not appear to be substrates for CYP2A6. The overall rate of dicumarol metabolism varied approximately 5-fold among the human liver microsomal samples, but this variation correlated poorly (r2 = 0.126) with the variation observed in CYP2A6 levels and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
19356389	Effect of repeated dose of erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide.	To investigate the effects of steady state erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and its pharmacodynamically active metabolite roflumilast N-oxide in healthy subjects. Both roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide have similar intrinsic PDE4 inhibitory activity; the total PDE4 inhibition (tPDE4i) in humans is likely due to the combined effect of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide. Subjects (n = 16) received single oral roflumilast 500 microg once daily (Days 1 and 15), and repeated oral erythromycin 500 mg three times daily (Days 9 - 21). Percent ratios of Test/Reference (Reference: roflumilast alone; Test: roflumilast and steady-state erythromycin) were calculated for the geometric means and their 90% confidence intervals for systemic exposure (AUC), maximum concentration (Cmax) (roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide), and apparent clearance of roflumilast. After co-administration of erythromycin and roflumilast, the mean AUC and Cmax of roflumilast increased by 70% and 40%, respectively. The mean apparent clearance of roflumilast decreased from 8.2 l/h (Reference) to 4.8 l/h (Test). Steady-state erythromycin did not alter the mean AUC of roflumilast N-oxide, however, the mean Cmax decreased by 34%. The AUCroflumilast N-oxide/AUCroflumilast ratio decreased from 10.6 (Reference) to 6.4 (Test). Co-administration of erythromycin and roflumilast did not influence the integrated total exposure to roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide, i.e. mean tPDE4i. No clinically relevant adverse events were observed during the study. Co-administration of erythromycin (a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor) and roflumilast does not require dose adjustment of roflumilast.
15764715	Characterization of testosterone 11 beta-hydroxylation catalyzed by human liver microsomal cytochromes P450.	A combination of accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry has been used to clarify some new aspects of testosterone metabolism. The main pathway of testosterone oxidative metabolism by human liver microsomes is the formation of 1beta-, 2alpha-/beta-, 6beta-, 15beta-, and 16beta-hydroxytestosterones, mainly catalyzed by cytochromes P450 2C9, 2C19, and 3A4. We now report the first determination that 11beta-hydroxytestosterone (11beta-OHT) can also be formed by human liver microsomal fractions. The structures of five hydroxylated metabolites of testosterone (2beta-, 6beta-, 11beta-, 15beta-, and 16beta-OHT) and the C-17 oxidative metabolite androstenedione were determined by liquid chromatography with UV detection at 240 nm and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Corresponding results were obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography-AMS analysis of incubations of [4-14C]testosterone with human liver microsomes. 6beta-Hydroxylation was always the dominant metabolic pathway, but 2beta-, 15beta-, and 16beta-OHT, and androstenedione were also formed. The previously undetected hydroxytestosterone, 11beta-OHT, was found to be a minor metabolite formed by human liver microsomal enzymes. It was formed more readily by CYP3A4 than by either CYP2C9 or CYP2C19. 11beta-Hydroxylation was inhibited by ketoconazole (IC50 = 30 nM) at concentrations similar to the IC50 (36 nM) for 6beta-hydroxylation Therefore, CYP3A4 could be mainly responsible for testosterone 11beta-hydroxylation in the human liver. These findings identify human hepatic biotransformation of testosterone to 11beta-OHT as a previously unrecognized extra-adrenal metabolic pathway.
23361230	2-methiopropamine, a thiophene analogue of methamphetamine: studies on its metabolism and detectability in the rat and human using GC-MS and LC-(HR)-MS techniques.	2-Methiopropamine [1-(thiophen-2-yl)-2-methylaminopropane, 2-MPA], a thiophene analogue of methamphetamine, is available from online vendors selling "research chemicals." The first samples were seized by the German police in 2011. As it is a recreational stimulant, its inclusion in routine drug screening protocols should be required. The aims of this study were to identify the phase I and II metabolites of 2-MPA in rat and human urine and to identify the human cytochrome-P450 (CYP) isoenzymes involved in its phase I metabolism. In addition, the detectability of 2-MPA in urine samples using the authors' well-established gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and liquid chromatography-linear ion trap-mass spectrometry (LC-MS(n)) screening protocols was also evaluated. The metabolites were isolated from rat and human urine samples by solid-phase extraction without or following enzymatic cleavage of conjugates. The phase I metabolites, following acetylation, were separated and identified by GC-MS and/or liquid chromatography-high-resolution linear ion trap mass spectrometry (LC-HR-MS(n)) and the phase II metabolites by LC-HR-MS(n). The following major metabolic pathways were proposed: N-demethylation, hydroxylation at the side chain and at the thiophene ring, and combination of these transformations followed by glucuronidation and/or sulfation. CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 were identified as the major phase I metabolizing enzymes. They were also involved in the N-demethylation of the analogue methamphetamine and CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 in its ring hydroxylation. Following the administration of a typical user's dose, 2-MPA and its metabolites were identified in rat urine using the authors' GC-MS and the LC-MS(n) screening approaches. Ingestion of 2-MPA could also be detected by both protocols in an authentic human urine sample.
9276639	Evidence for cytochrome P450 2A6 and 3A4 as major catalysts for N'-nitrosonornicotine alpha-hydroxylation by human liver microsomes.	The tobacco specific carcinogen N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN), is believed to be a causative agent for esophageal cancer in smokers. NNN requires metabolic activation to exert its carcinogenic potential. Metabolism occurs through cytochrome P450 (P450) catalyzed 2'- and 5'-hydroxylation, which generates unstable metabolites that decompose to 4-hydroxy-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone ('keto alcohol') and 4-hydroxy-4-(3-pyridyl)butanal, respectively. The latter cyclyzes to 5-(3-pyridyl)-2-hydroxytetrahydrofuran ('lactol'). 2'-Hydroxylation of NNN is believed to be the pathway critical for esophogeal NNN carcinogenesis in the rat. The ability of human liver microsomes and expressed human P450s to metabolize [5-(3)H]NNN to keto alcohol and lactol was determined by reverse phase HPLC with radioflow detection. At low NNN concentrations, 11 human liver microsomes metabolized NNN primarily by 5'-hydroxylation to lactol. This reaction was strongly correlated (r = 0.92) with coumarin 7-hydroxylation, suggesting that NNN 5'-hydroxylation is catalyzed mainly by P450 2A6. 2'-Hydroxylation of NNN by human liver microsomes correlated with 6beta-hydroxylation of testosterone, a P450 3A4-specific activity (r = 0.94). The relative rates of 2'- and 5'-hydroxylation by human P450s 2A6, 2E1, 2D6 and 3A4 expressed in Sf9 cells by the baculovirus-insect cell expression system, and human P450 3A4 produced by stable expression in Chinese hamster ovary cells, were determined. Human P450 2A6 metabolized 1 microM NNN exclusively by 5'-hydroxylation. The rate of lactol formation was 317 pmol/min per nmol P450. Human P450s 2E1 and 2D6 also metabolized NNN only to lactol, but at much lower rates, 0.4 and 0.8 pmol/min per nmol of P450 respectively. In contrast, the metabolism of NNN by expressed human P450 3A4 was specific for keto alcohol formation. The Km for 5'-hydroxylation by baculovirus-expressed P450 2A6 was 2.1 microM, and k(cat) was 953 pmol/min per nmol of P450. The Km for lactol formation by human liver microsomes containing high levels of P450 2A6, was 5 microM . Human liver microsomes exhibited a Km of 312 microM for keto alcohol formation. Coumarin, 8-methoxypsoralen (P450 2A6 inhibitors), and anti-2A6 monoclonal antibody were strong inhibitors of NNN-derived lactol formation in human liver microsomes. Troleandomycin, an inhibitor of P450 3A4, effectively inhibited the metabolism of NNN to keto alcohol by human liver microsomes. These results are consistent with P450 2A6 mediated 5'-hydroxylation and P450 3A4 mediated 2'-hydroxylation of NNN in human liver microsomes.
15656654	Metabolism of antioxidant and chemopreventive ellagitannins from strawberries, raspberries, walnuts, and oak-aged wine in humans: identification of biomarkers and individual variability.	Ellagitannins (ETs) are dietary polyphenols, containing ellagic acid (EA) subunits, with antioxidant and cancer chemopreventive activities that might contribute to health benefits in humans. However, little is known about their metabolic fate. We investigate here the metabolism of different dietary ETs and EA derivatives in humans. Forty healthy volunteers were distributed in four groups. Each group consumed, in a single dose, a different ET-containing foodstuff, i.e., strawberries (250 g), red raspberries (225 g), walnuts (35 g), and oak-aged red wine (300 mL). After the intake, five urine fractions (F) were collected at 8 (F1), 16 (F2), 32 (F3), 40 (F4), and 56 (F5) h. Neither ETs nor EA were detected in urine after LC-MS/MS analysis. However, the microbial metabolite 3,8-dihydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one (urolithin B) conjugated with glucuronic acid was detected along the fractions F3-F5 in all of the subjects, independently of the consumed foodstuff. The mean percentage of metabolite excretion ranged from 2.8 (strawberries) to 16.6% (walnuts) regarding the ingested ETs. Considerable interindividual differences were noted, identifying "high and low metabolite excreters" in each group, which supported the involvement of the colonic microflora in ET metabolism. These results indicate that urolithin B (a previously described antiangiogenic and hyaluronidase inhibitor compound) is a biomarker of human exposure to dietary ETs and may be useful in intervention studies with ET-containing products. The antioxidant and anticarcinogenic effects of dietary ETs and EA should be considered in the gastrointestinal tract whereas the study of potential systemic activities should be focused on the bioavailable urolithin B derivatives.
17628876	Glucuronidation of curcuminoids by human microsomal and recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.	Glucuronidation is an important pathway in the metabolism of curcumin, but the isoforms of uridine-5'-diphosphoglucuronosyltransferase (UGT) involved are not known. Here, we report on the glucuronidation of the three natural curcuminoids and their major phase I metabolites with microsomes from human liver and intestine as well as with human recombinant UGTs. Microsomes from human liver generated predominantly the phenolic and small amounts of the alcoholic glucuronide of each curcuminoid, whereas intestinal microsomes formed only the phenolic conjugates but with higher activities. The phenolic glucuronidation of the curcuminoids was predominantly catalyzed by hepatic UGT1A1 and intestinal UGT1A8 and 1A10, whereas UGT1A9, 2B7, and 1A8 exhibited high activities for hexahydro-curcuminoids. UGT1A9 was able to form the alcoholic glucuronide of each curcuminoid in addition to the phenolic conjugate. These data suggest that the gastrointestinal tract contributes substantially to the glucuronidation of curcuminoids in humans, which may have important implications for their pharmacokinetic fate in vivo.
23378626	Absorption, elimination, and metabolism of CS-1036, a novel -amylase inhibitor in rats and monkeys, and the relationship between gastrointestinal distribution and suppression of glucose absorption.	The absorption, metabolism, and excretion of (2R,3R,4R)-4-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl 4-O-(6-deoxy--d-glucopyranosyl)--d-glucopyranoside (CS-1036), a novel and potent pancreatic and salivary -amylase inhibitor, were evaluated in F344/DuCrlCrlj rats and cynomolgus monkeys. The total body clearance and volume of distribution of CS-1036 were low (2.67-3.44 ml/min/kg and 0.218-0.237 l/kg for rats and 2.25-2.84 ml/min/kg and 0.217-0.271 l/kg for monkeys). After intravenous administration of [(14)C]CS-1036 to rats and monkeys, radioactivity was mainly excreted into urine (77.2% for rats and 81.1% for monkeys). After oral administration, most of the radioactivity was recovered from feces (80.28% for rats and 88.13% for monkeys) with a low oral bioavailability (1.73-2.44% for rats and 0.983-1.20% for monkeys). In rats, intestinal secretion is suggested to be involved in the fecal excretion as a minor component because fecal excretion after intravenous administration was observed (15.66%) and biliary excretion was almost negligible. Although intestinal flora was involved in CS-1036 metabolism, CS-1036 was the main component in feces (70.3% for rats and 48.7% for monkeys) and in the intestinal contents (33-68% for rats up to 2 hours after the dose) after oral administration. In Zucker diabetic fatty rats, CS-1036 showed a suppressive effect on plasma glucose elevation after starch loading with a 50% effective dose at 0.015 mg/kg. In summary, CS-1036 showed optimal pharmacokinetic profiles: low oral absorption and favorable stability in gastrointestinal lumen, resulting in suppression of postprandial hyperglycemia by -amylase inhibition.
17032701	Toxicokinetics of inhaled trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene in humans at 1 ppm: empirical results and comparisons with previous studies.	Trichloroethylene (TRI) and tetrachloroethylene (TETRA) are solvents that have been widely used in a variety of industries, and both are widespread environmental contaminants. In order to provide a better basis for understanding their toxicokinetics at environmental exposures, seven human volunteers were exposed by inhalation to 1 ppm of TRI or TETRA for 6 h, with biological samples collected for analysis during exposure and up to 6-days postexposure. Concentrations of TRI, TETRA, free trichloroethanol (TCOH), total TCOH (free TCOH plus glucuronidated TCOH), and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) were determined in blood and urine; TRI and TETRA concentrations were measured in alveolar breath. Toxicokinetic time courses and empirical analyses of classical toxicokinetic parameters were compared with those reported in previous human volunteer studies, most of which involved exposures that were at least 10-fold higher. Qualitatively, TRI and TETRA toxicokinetics were consistent with previous human studies. Quantitatively, alveolar retention and clearance by exhalation were similar to those found previously but blood and urine data suggest a number of possible toxicokinetic differences. For TRI, data from the current study support lower apparent blood-air partition coefficients, greater apparent metabolic clearance, less TCA production, and greater glucuronidation of TCOH as compared to previous studies. For TETRA, the current data suggest TCA formation that is similar or slightly lower than that of previous studies. Variability and uncertainty in empirical estimates of total TETRA metabolism are substantial, with confidence intervals among different studies substantially overlapping. Relative contributions to observed differences from concentration-dependent toxicokinetics and interindividual and interoccasion variability remain to be determined.
20102295	Kinetic analysis of bile acid sulfation by stably expressed human sulfotransferase 2A1 (SULT2A1).	Human sulfotransferase 2A1 (SULT2A1) is a member of the hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase (SULT2) family that mediates sulfo-conjugation of a variety of endogenous molecules including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and bile acids. In this study, we have constructed a stable cell line expressing SULT2A1 by transfection into HEK293 cells. The expression system was used to characterize and compare the sulfation kinetics of DHEA and 15 human bile acids by SULT2A1. Formation of DHEA sulfate demonstrated Michaelis-Menten kinetics with apparent K(m) and V(max) values of 3.8 muM and 130.8 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein, respectively. Sulfation kinetics of bile acids also demonstrated Michaelis-Menten kinetics with a marked variation in apparent K(m) and V(max) values between individual bile acids. Sulfation affinity was inversely proportional to the number of hydroxyl groups of bile acids. The monohydroxy- and most toxic bile acid (lithocholic acid) had the highest affinity, whereas the trihydroxy- and least toxic bile acid (cholic acid) had the lowest affinity to sulfation by SULT2A1. Intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) was approximately 1.5- and 9.0-fold higher than that of deoxycholic acid (DCA) and chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), respectively, despite the fact that all three are dihydroxy bile acids.
8080456	Sulphation of N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl and N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl by human foetal and neonatal sulphotransferase.	Sulphation of the genotoxic compounds N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-4ABP) and N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl (N-OH-4AABP) was determined in cytosolic preparations of human foetal, neonatal and adult liver and foetal and neonatal adrenal gland. Sulphotransferase (ST) activity capable of sulphating these compounds was present in foetal liver and adrenal gland by 14 weeks of gestation. Sulphation of N-OH-4ABP was higher in foetal and neonatal adrenal cytosol than was sulphation of N-OH-4AABP and in general, N-OH-4ABP ST activity was also greater than that towards 1-naphthol. In foetal and neonatal liver cytosol the sulphation of N-OH-4ABP was also higher than that of N-OH-4AABP (approximately 2-fold). In adult liver cytosols, however, N-OH-4AABP ST activity was higher than that for N-OH-4ABP and 1-naphthol sulphation. Aromatic hydroxylamines and hydroxamic acids are known to be converted by sulphotransferase into reactive, electrophilic compounds capable of reacting with DNA. Our data show that the human foetus and neonate have the capacity to sulphate these compounds and thus is able to produce the reactive mutagenic metabolites. Therefore, this class of genotoxic compounds may be bioactivated by humans during development--a time when they are most vulnerable to the effects of genotoxins.
21623702	Enantioselective carbonyl reduction of eperisone in human liver microsomes.	Eperisone, 4-ethyl-2-methyl-3-piperidinopropiophenone, is a centrally acting muscle relaxant widely used to relieve muscle stiffness and back pain. In this study, enantioselectivity for carbonyl reduction of eperisone was investigated in human liver microsomes, and the enzymes involved in the carbonyl reduction were characterised. Carbonyl reduction of eperisone predominantly occurred in microsomal fractions and 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1(11-HSD 1) played a major role in this reaction as judged by selective inhibition of the activity by BVT-14225 and KR-66344. The kinetic study with (+)-S- and (-)-R-eperisone showed that the formation of the carbonyl reduced metabolite (M5) from the (-)-R-isomer was more efficient than that from the (-)-S-isomer. As eperisone is a racemic compound with one chiral centre, the carbonyl reduced metabolite of eperisone (M5) may have four possible diastereoisomeric structures. Chiral separation of incubation mixtures of racemic eperisone with human liver microsome revealed that (1S, 2S)-M5 and (1R, 2R)-M5 were generated specifically from (+)-S- and (-)-R-eperisone, respectively. Selective formation of anti-diastereomers was further confirmed by incubation of individual enantiomer with microsomes. Carbonyl reduction of eperisone by microsomal 11-HSD 1 may significantly contribute to the metabolic disposition of eperisone in human and (-)-R-isomer is preferentially reduced by this enzyme.
8675135	Fatal poisoning with the antidepressive agent opipramol.	An ingestion of an unknown quantity ( < or = 3000 mg) of opipramol dihydrochloride in a suicide case is described. Quantitation of opipramol and its deshydroxyethyl metabolite was performed simultaneously after liquid-liquid extraction from alkalinized samples prior to HPLC analysis. Postmortem concentrations of opipramol and of the metabolite in body fluids and organs are given. The distribution pattern of opipramol in tissue was comparable to findings from animal studies. The results showed the high uptake of opipramol in parenchymal tissues resulting in a low blood concentration. A possibly low contribution of deshydroxyethyl opipramol to the antidepressive effect may be concluded as the concentration was considerably lower in brain compared to other organs.
15644451	Isolation and identification of seven glucuronide conjugates of andrographolide in human urine.	Andrographolide is one of the principal components of a famous traditional Chinese herbal medicine, Andrographis paniculate (Burm) Nees, and has been widely used in the clinic for the treatment of infectious diseases. In this paper, metabolites of andrographolide in the urine of eight healthy volunteers after oral administration were further investigated. Building on previous findings, an additional seven phase II metabolites were isolated by liquid-liquid extraction, open-column chromatography, medium-pressure liquid chromatography, and, finally, preparative high-performance liquid chromatography. Structural elucidation was carried out by mass spectra and NMR spectroscopy including 1H NMR, 13C NMR and two-dimensional NMR (distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer, heteronuclear multiple-quantum correlation, heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation, 1H-1H correlated spectroscopy, and nuclear Overhauser enhancement spectroscopy). All of the metabolites were characterized as glucuronide conjugates, and the structures were determined to be andrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-1), isoandrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-2), 14-deoxy-12-hydroxy-andrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-3), andrographolide-19-O-[6'-methyl-beta-D-glucuronide] (M-4), 14-deoxy-12(13)-en-andrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-5), 14-deoxyandrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-6), and 3-oxoandrographolide-19-O-beta-D-glucuronide (M-7), respectively.
7773302	(S)oxazepam glucuronidation is inhibited by ketoprofen and other substrates of UGT2B7.	1,4-Benzodiazepine anxiolytics such as diazepam and halazepam are converted in vivo to oxazepam, an active metabolite with a hydroxyl group at the asymmetric C3 position. D-glucuronic acid couples with the C3 hydroxyl group of oxazepam to form pharmacologically inactive diastereomeric glucuronide conjugates. Conjugation with glucuronic acid is catalysed by the microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzyme system, which includes an undetermined number of isozymes. Although 1,4-benzodiazepines are ultimately cleared as oxazepam glucuronide, little is known about the particular UGT isozyme(s) responsible for the conjugation at the C3 position of these molecules. Microsomal preparations from three human livers were used to study the glucuronidation of (R,S)oxazepam in vitro. The predominant formation of the S- over the R-glucuronide was reflected by the kinetic parameters: For (S)oxazepam glucuronide, the constants were Km = 0.18 +/- 0.02 mM and Vmax = 202.6 +/- 25.0 nmol min-1 per mg protein; for (R)oxazepam glucuronide, they were Km = 0.22 +/- 0.02 mM, Vmax = 55.4 +/- 9.5 nmol min-1 per mg protein. Inhibition studies suggest that the two diastereomeric glucuronidations are catalysed by different UGT isozymes. That is, there was competitive inhibition of (S)oxazepam glucuronidation by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including ketoprofen while (R)oxazepam glucuronidation was not equally inhibited by these compounds. The order of potency of inhibitors of (S)oxazepam glucuronidation in this study was the same as the rank order of substrates conjugated by UGT2B7; hyodeoxycholic acid, estriol, (S)naproxen, ketoprofen, ibuprofen, fenoprofen, clofibric acid, and morphine (in descending order). The inhibition profile of (S)oxazepam glucuronidation suggests that UGT2B7 is the catalysing enzyme.
23571427	Stereoselective glucuronidation of ornidazole in humans: predominant contribution of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A9 and 2B7.	Ornidazole [R,S-1-chloro-3-(2-methyl-5-nitro-1H-imidazol-1-yl)propan-2-ol] is a chiral 5-nitroimidazole class antimicrobial agent. This study aimed to investigate the principal metabolic pathway of ornidazole in humans and identify the major enzymes involved. A total of 19 metabolites were identified in human urine collected from patients with hepatobiliary diseases after an intravenous drip infusion of 500 mg of racemic ornidazole. Stereoselective glucuronidation, followed by renal excretion, was the principal metabolic pathway of ornidazole in humans, accounting for 37.3% of the administered dose. Screening assays with 12 available human recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) demonstrated that UGT1A9 was the predominant UGT isoform involved in R-ornidazole glucuronidation, whereas S-ornidazole glucuronidation was almost exclusively catalyzed by UGT2B7. Chemical inhibition study with niflumic acid and flurbiprofen supported these findings. Enzyme kinetic parameters were then determined in human liver microsomes (HLMs), human kidney microsomes (HKMs), UGT1A9, and 2B7. The K(m) values for UGT1A9 (15.6  1.6 mM for R-ornidazole) and 2B7 (3.8  0.9 mM for S-ornidazole) were quite similar to those determined in HLMs and HKMs (20.1  1.4 and 17.7  4.0 mM for R-ornidazole; 6.6  1.3 and 3.2  0.4 mM for S-ornidazole). The in vitro intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) ratios of S- to R-ornidazole were approximately 4.3 in HLMs and 6.5 in HKMs, respectively. The hepatic and renal clearances were estimated based on the well-stirred model. Overall, stereoselective glucuronidation was the principal metabolic pathway of ornidazole in humans. Furthermore, UGT1A9 and 2B7 were the predominant UGT isoforms responsible for R- and S-ornidazole glucuronidation in humans, respectively.
22120041	Simultaneous determination of 9-tetrahydrocannabinol and 11-nor-9-carboxy-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in oral fluid using isotope dilution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	The detection and confirmation of cannabinoids in oral fluid are important in forensic toxicology. Currently, the presence of (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is used for the detection of cannabis in oral fluid. A low concentration of 11-nor-9-carboxy-(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH) is found in oral fluid, which suggested a convenient and low-sensitivity confirmation assay can be used in a routine forensic laboratory. In this study, a highly sensitive isotope dilution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method following dansylation was successfully developed for simultaneous determination of THC and THC-COOH in oral fluid. The dansylated derivatives dramatically demonstrated and enhanced the sensitivity of THC and THC-COOH. To avoid signal influenced by the matrix, a 5-min liquid chromatography gradient program was evaluated and optimized, which reduced the sample diffusion and caused sharp peaks (less than 12 s) and thus helped to achieve detection at a low level. The sensitivity, accuracy, and precision were also evaluated, and high quantitative accuracy and precision were obtained. The limit of quantitation of this approach was 25 pg/mL for THC and 10 pg/mL for THC-COOH in oral fluid. Finally, the method was successfully applied to eight suspected cannabis users. Among them, in six oral fluid samples THC-COOH was determined at a concentration from 13.1 to 47.2 pg/mL.
19281600	The hypoalgesic effect of oxycodone in human experimental pain models in relation to the CYP2D6 oxidation polymorphism.	Oxycodone is O-demethylated by CYP2D6 to oxymorphone which is a potent micro-receptor agonist. The CYP2D6 oxidation polymorphism divides the Caucasian population in two phenotypes: approximately 8% with no enzyme activity, poor metabolizers (PM) and the remainder with preserved CYP2D6 activity, extensive metabolizers (EM). The objective of the study was to determine if the analgesic effect of oxycodone in human experimental pain depends on its metabolism to oxymorphone. The analgesic effect of oxycodone was evaluated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, crossover experiment including 33 (16 EM and 17 PM) healthy volunteers. Pain tests were performed before and 1, 2, 3 and 4 hr after medication and included pain detection and tolerance thresholds to single electrical sural nerve stimulation, pain summation threshold to repetitive electrical sural nerve stimulation and the cold pressor test with rating of discomfort and pain-time area under curve (AUC(0-2 min.)). For single sural nerve stimulation, there was a less pronounced increase in thresholds on oxycodone in pain detection (9% vs. 20%, P = 0.02, a difference of 11%, CI: 2%-20%) and pain tolerance thresholds (15% vs. 26%, P = 0.037, a difference of 10%, CI: 1%-20%) for PM compared with EM. In the cold pressor test, there was less reduction in pain AUC on oxycodone for PM compared with EM (14% vs. 26%, P = 0.012, a difference of 12%, CI: 3%-22%). The plasma oxymorphone/oxycodone ratio was significantly lower in PM compared with EM (P < 0.001). Oxycodone analgesia seems to depend both on oxycodone itself and its metabolite oxymorphone.
22517972	Sequential metabolism of AMG 487, a novel CXCR3 antagonist, results in formation of quinone reactive metabolites that covalently modify CYP3A4 Cys239 and cause time-dependent inhibition of the enzyme.	CYP3A4-mediated biotransformation of (R)-N-(1-(3-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-4-oxo-3,4-dihydropyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)ethyl)-N-(pyridin-3-ylmethyl)-2-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl)acetamide (AMG 487) was previously shown to generate an inhibitory metabolite linked to dose- and time-dependent pharmacokinetics in humans. Although in vitro activity loss assays failed to demonstrate CYP3A4 time-dependent inhibition (TDI) with AMG 487, its M2 phenol metabolite readily produced TDI when remaining activity was assessed using either midazolam or testosterone (K(I) = 0.73-0.74 M, k(inact) = 0.088-0.099 min(-1)). TDI investigations using an IC(50) shift method successfully produced inhibition attributable to AMG 487, but only when preincubations were extended from 30 to 90 min. The shift magnitude was 3 for midazolam activity, but no shift was observed for testosterone activity. Subsequent partition ratio determinations conducted for M2 using recombinant CYP3A4 showed that inactivation was a relatively inefficient process (r = 36). CYP3A4-mediated biotransformation of [(3)H]M2 in the presence of GSH led to identification of two new metabolites, M4 and M5, which shifted focus away from M2 being directly responsible for TDI. M4 (hydroxylated M2) was further metabolized to form reactive intermediates that, upon reaction with GSH, produced isomeric adducts, collectively designated M5. Incubations conducted in the presence of [(18)O]H(2)O confirmed incorporation of oxygen from O(2) for the majority of M4 and M5 formed (>75%). Further evidence of a primary role for M4 in CYP3A4 TDI was generated by protein labeling and proteolysis experiments, in which M4 was found to be covalently bound to Cys239 of CYP3A4. These investigations confirmed a primarily role for M4 in CYP3A4 inactivation, suggesting that a more complex metabolic pathway was responsible for generation of inhibitory metabolites affecting AMG 487 human pharmacokinetics.
8615879	Induction of daunorubicin carbonyl reducing enzymes by daunorubicin in sensitive and resistant pancreas carcinoma cells.	Daunorubicin (DRC) and other anthracyclines are valuable cytotoxic agents in the clinical treatment of certain malignancies. However, as is the case with virtually all anticancer drugs, tumor cell resistance to these agents is one of the major obstacles to successful chemotherapy. In addition to an increased energy-dependent efflux of chemotherapeutic agents, enzymatic drug-inactivating mechanisms also contribute to multidrug resistance of tumor cells. In the case of DRC, carbonyl reduction leads to 13-hydroxydaunorubicinol (DRCOL), the major metabolite of DRC with a significantly lower antineoplastic potency compared to the parent drug. In the present study, we compared two pancreas carcinoma cell lines (a DRC-sensitive parental line and its DRC-resistant subline) with respect to their capacity of DRC inactivation via carbonyl reduction. In addition, we cultured the two cell lines in the presence of increasing sublethal concentrations of DRC. Evidence is presented that DRC treatment itself leads to a concentration-dependent induction of DRC carbonyl reduction in subcellular fractions of both the sensitive and resistant pancreas carcinoma cells, resulting, surprisingly, in different susceptibilities to DRC. The principal difference between the two cell lines becomes most apparent at high-dose DRC supplementation (1 microgram/mL), at which DRC resistant cells exhibited higher inducibility of DRC-inactivating enzymes, whereas respective sensitive cells already showed an impairment of cellular viability. The use of the diagnostic model substrates metyrapone and p-nitrobenzaldehyde reveals that this adaptive enhancement of DRC inactivation can be attributed to the induction of DRC carbonyl reductases different from known aldehyde and carbonyl reductases. In conclusion, these findings suggest that inactivation of anthracyclines by carbonyl reduction is inducible by the substrate itself, a fact that might be considered as one of the enzymatic mechanisms that contribute to the acquired resistance to these drugs.
20040135	Bioanalytical investigation of asarone in connection with Acorus calamus oil intoxications.	Preparations of the plant Acorus calamus (calamus or sweet flag) (A. calamus) are available via internet trade and marketed as being hallucinogenic. In 2003-2006, the Swedish Poisons Information Centre received inquiries about 30 clinical cases of intentional intoxication with A. calamus products. The present investigation aimed to identify alpha- and beta-asarone, considered active components of A. calamus, and metabolites thereof in urine samples collected in seven of these cases. To further aid the identification of asarone biotransformation products, a calamus oil preparation was incubated with the fungus Cunninghamella elegans, which is used as a microbial model of mammalian drug metabolism. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis in selected ion monitoring mode, alpha-asarone was detected in five urine samples at concentrations ranging between approximately 11 and 1150 microg/L and beta-asarone in four of those at approximately 22-220 microg/L. A previously identified asarone metabolite, trans-2,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (trans-TMC), was detected in the fungus broth by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry whereas cis-TMC was tentatively identified in the human urine samples. Using GC-MS, a hydroxylated asarone metabolite was identified both in fungus broth and urine samples. However, this study demonstrated no evidence for the presence of 2,4,5-trimethoxyamphetamine, claimed as a hallucinogenic component of A. calamus. The main clinical symptom reported by the patients was prolonged vomiting that sometimes lasted more than 15 h.
15447735	Effect of itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics of inhaled lidocaine.	Lidocaine is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 and 1A2 enzymes (CYP3A4 and CYP1A2) in vitro. However, their relative contribution to the elimination of lidocaine depends on lidocaine concentration. We have studied the effect of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, itraconazole, on the pharmacokinetics of inhaled lidocaine in ten healthy volunteers using a randomized, two-phase cross-over study design. The interval between the phases was four weeks. The subjects were given orally itraconazole (200 mg once a day) or placebo for four days. On day 4, each subject inhaled a single dose of 1.5 mg/kg of lidocaine by nebulizer. Plasma samples were collected until 10 hr and the concentrations of lidocaine and its major metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide were measured by gas chromatography. The areas under the lidocaine and monoethylglycinexylidide concentration time curves were similar during both phases. No statistically significant differences were observed in any of the pharmacokinetic parameters; peak concentrations, concentration peak times or elimination half-lives of lidocaine or monoethylglycinexylidide. The clinical implication of this study is that no lidocaine dosage adjustments are necessary if it is used to prepare the airway prior to endoscopic procedures or intubation in patients using itraconazole or other inhibitors of CYP3A4.
19021935	Solid-phase extraction procedure for ethyl glucuronide in urine.	Measurement of the conjugated ethanol metabolite ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in urine is increasingly being used as a biomarker for recent alcohol consumption. Prior to quantification of EtG by mass spectrometric (MS) methods [liquid chromatography (LC)-MS or gas chromatography-MS], there is sometimes need for sample cleanup to remove interfering matrix constituents. A solid-phase extraction (SPE) procedure using a HyperSep SAX strong anion exchanger was developed for sample cleanup of urinary EtG prior to LC-MS analysis. The EtG content in a 50-100-microL urine sample was finally reconstituted in the same volume as the original aliquot. The cleaner SPE extracts, without sample dilution, allowed for improved quantification of urinary EtG in the low concentration range. The detection limit of the SPE procedure when combined with LC-MS analysis was < 0.1 mg/L EtG, and the assay imprecision < 5.5% (total CV) in the 0.5-5.0 mg/L concentration range. The absolute recovery of urinary EtG was ~80%, which was compensated for by using a deuterated analogue (EtG-d(5)) as internal standard. The urinary EtG results with SPE followed by LC-MS were highly correlated (r(2) = 0.959) with those obtained using a sensitive and selective ultra-performance LC-tandem MS method.
433310	The metabolism of benzyclane [1-benzyl-1-(3-N,N-dimethylaminopropoxy)cycloheptane] in rat and man.	1. Two metabolites, isolated from the urine of rats dosed with bencyclane fumarate, were characterized as cis-1-benzyl-1-(3-N,N-dimethylaminopropoxy)-4-hydroxycycloheptane (metabolite I) and 1-benzyl-1-(3-N,N-dimethylaminopropoxy)-4-oxocycloheptane (metabolite II). 2. Bencyclane and the two metabolites were determined in the urine of rats and volunteers by g.l.c. Metabolite I was a major metabolite in men, being excreted in urine to the extent of 23.5% dose in the first 24 h.
22996801	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of IV vinflunine in cancer patients with liver dysfunction.	Vinflunine is a novel tubulin-targeted agent that is currently indicated as a monotherapy in bladder cancer patients. The recommended dose of 320 mg/m(2) is given as an intravenous infusion once every 3 weeks. Vinflunine is metabolized through CYP3A4 and mainly eliminated via the feces. A phase I trial was designed to explore the tolerability and pharmacokinetics of vinflunine in cancer patients with ranging degrees of liver dysfunction (LD). A sequential design was used for patient accrual, with the objective of determining the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended dose (RD) of vinflunine in 3 groups of increasing LD levels. Vinflunine and its only active metabolite 4-O-deacetylvinflunine were quantified in serial whole blood samples. PK parameters were derived and compared between LD groups and with a reference PK database. Vinflunine and 4-O-deacetylvinflunine PK parameters were not affected in any of the explored LD levels. Geometric mean values for vinflunine total clearance were 47.8, 37.5 and 45.4 L/h in the 3 groups of increasing degrees of LD, as compared to 42.5 L/h in reference patients with no LD. No relationship was found between vinflunine clearance and the presence or absence of cirrhosis, nor was it found with the presence or absence of liver metastasis or with liver-related biochemical parameters. Based on the observed tolerability profile, the recommended doses of i.v. vinflunine are 320 mg/m(2), 250 mg/m(2) or 200 mg/m(2) for patients with increasing degrees of liver dysfunction.
15934038	Electrospray tandem mass spectrometric analysis of zeaxanthin and its oxidation products.	Carotenoids have been implicated in protection of the eye from light-mediated photo-toxicity caused by free radicals. Under conditions of normal oxidative stress the carotenoids serve as protective antioxidants; however, when the oxidative stress exceeds the antioxidant capacity, carotenoids can be oxidized into numerous cleavage products. The determination and identification of oxidized carotenoids in biological samples remains a major challenge due to the small sample size and low stability of these compounds. We investigated the reaction of various zeaxanthin cleavage products with O-ethyl hydroxylamine to evaluate their levels in a biological sample. For this, a sensitive and specific electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) was developed, avoiding the classical lower sensitive and specific HPLC-UV and fluorescence absorption methods. Protonated molecules [M + H](+) of carotenoids upon collision-induced dissociation produced a number of structurally characteristic product ions. A series of complicated clusters of product ions differing in 14 (CH(2))and 26 (C(2)H(2))Da was characteristic of the polyene chain of intact carotenoids. All carotenoid ethyl oximes of zeaxanthin cleavage products were characterized by the losses of 60 and 61 Da in their MS/MS spectra. Through the application of the LC/MS/MS method, we identified two oxime derivatives of 3-hydroxy-beta-ionone and 3-hydroxy-14'-apocarotenal with protonated molecules at m/z 252 and m/z 370 respectively, in a human eye sample.
15965309	Entacapone increases levodopa exposure and reduces plasma levodopa variability when used with Sinemet CR.	Entacapone is a catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor used as an adjunct to levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitors in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Entacapone increases the bioavailability and reduces the daily variation of plasma levodopa when administered with standard levodopa preparations. These parameters were studied when entacapone was administered with a controlled-release levodopa preparation after repeated administrations throughout the day in 16 healthy male volunteers. On 2 test days, 200 mg entacapone or placebo was administered 4 times during the day at 4-hour intervals concomitantly with a single dose of controlled-release levodopa/carbidopa 100 mg/25 mg (Sinemet CR). Plasma levodopa, 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD), and carbidopa concentrations were measured before intake of the medication and then every 30 minutes for 16 hours (until midnight), and less frequently up to 24 hours after the first levodopa dose. The minimum, maximum, and average concentration of levodopa; the daily variation of levodopa concentration; and the area under the time concentration curve (AUC) were calculated. The mean (+/-SD) plasma levodopa AUC was 39% (P = 0.0001) higher with entacapone (11,802 +/- 1454 ng/hour/mL) compared with placebo (8465 +/- 927 ng/hour/mL). The daily variation of plasma levodopa was reduced by about 25% with entacapone (P < 0.01). Entacapone significantly reduced plasma 3-OMD concentration by about 50% (P = 0.0001), indicating marked COMT inhibiting activity. There were no differences in plasma carbidopa concentrations. Entacapone significantly increased the bioavailability of levodopa and reduced its daily variation when administered concomitantly with a controlled-release levodopa preparation.
22174436	Pharmacokinetics of single-dose doripenem in adults with cystic fibrosis.	The pharmacokinetics of doripenem and doripenem-M-1 (inactive metabolite) were evaluated in an open-label, 2-period, single-sequence study in which single 1-g and 2-g doses of doripenem were administered intravenously over 4 hours to adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The systemic exposure to doripenem and doripenem-M-1, as measured by observed apparent maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), increased approximately proportionally to the increase in dose. Other pharmacokinetic parameters of doripenem and doripenem-M-1, including clearance, volume of distribution, and elimination half-life, were similar for the 1-g and 2-g doses. The results from this study were also compared with those from a previous study in adult healthy volunteers (HVs) without CF, from a previously conducted pharmacokinetic study, who received single doses of 500 mg and 1 g doripenem administered over 4 hours. The pharmacokinetics of doripenem in adult patients with CF are similar to those from adult HVs, noting some differences in the disposition when comparing body mass index-adjusted pharmacokinetic parameters.
22546895	Intravenous buspirone for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting.	Buspirone, a partial 5HT(1A) agonist and D and D antagonist, has shown promising antiemetic efficacy when given parenterally in animal models, but its efficacy for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is unknown. To study the efficacy and dose-responsiveness of intravenous buspirone for the prevention of PONV. A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was performed in adults at moderate to high PONV risk undergoing surgery with a general anaesthetic. Patients were randomised to receive an intravenous dose of buspirone (0.3, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 mg) or placebo at the end of surgery. The primary endpoint was the cumulative 24-h PONV incidence (i.e. any nausea and/or vomiting). Vomiting included retching. Nausea was defined as a score of  4 on an 11-point verbal rating scale running from zero (no nausea) to ten (the worst nausea imaginable). A total of 257 patients received the study drug and fulfilled the criteria for inclusion in the primary efficacy and safety analyses. With placebo, the mean 24-h PONV incidence was 49.0 % (90 % confidence interval [CI] 37.5-60.5 %). With buspirone, that incidence ranged from a mean of 40.8 % (29.3-52.4 %) in the 1 mg arm to 58.0 % (46.5-69.5 %) in the 0.3 mg arm (P > 0.05 for all comparisons). There was no difference between placebo and buspirone at any dose for any other efficacy endpoint, nor in the number or severity of adverse events or any other safety measures. We were unable to show that intravenous single-dose buspirone, at the tested dose-range, was effective at preventing PONV in surgical adult patients. The present study emphasises the difficulty in extrapolating from animal models of emesis to clinical efficacy in PONV.
8879151	Captopril methylation in human liver and kidney: interindividual variability.	1. The methylation of captopril was studied in the microsomal fraction obtained from 87 specimens of human liver and 70 specimens of human renal cortex. 2. The rate captopril methylation ranged over one order of magnitude in the liver and kidney. In the human liver, the mean (+/- SD) rate of captopril methylation (pmol/min/mg) was significantly (p < 0.001) greater in women (199 +/- 97) than in men (126 +/- 88), whereas in the kidney no sex-difference was observed, and the mean (+/- SD) of all cases was 47 +/- 23 pmol/min/mg. 3. In the kidney, the statistical analysis revealed the presence of two subgroups in the rate of captopril methylation and their mean (+/- SD) estimates were 42.5 +/- 13.9 and 90.3 +/- 12.0 pmol/min/mg (p < 0.05). Of the population, 84% fell in the former and the remaining 16% in the latter subgroup. 4. Captopril is mainly eliminated by metabolism and its bioavailability is 65%. Methylation is one of the metabolic routes of captopril and its variability may contribute, to some extent, to modulate the intracellular concentration of this drug.
15370962	Role of CYP3A enzymes in the biotransformation of triazolam in rat liver.	1. Triazolam (TRZ) has been used extensively in rat to evaluate its benzodiazepine agonist central nervous system effects. However, the pharmacokinetics of TRZ in the male rat are not well understood. 2. To characterize further TRZ biotransformation across species, the NADPH-dependent biotransformation of TRZ was examined in rat and human liver microsomes. The role of specific cytochrome P450s (CYPs) in the biotransformation of TRZ in the rat were also determined using both rat cDNA-expressed CYPs and chemical and antibody inhibition techniques. 3. The formation of TRZ's primary hydroxylated products, alpha-OH- and 4-OH-TRZ, was consistent with a single-enzyme Michaelis-Menten model in humans. 4. Although 4-OH-TRZ formation in the male rat liver was also approximated by a single-enzyme model, a second low-affinity component was identified as contributing to alpha-OH-TRZ formation in the rat. 5. The K(m) values for the primary metabolic pathway differed between the two species. However, the net intrinsic clearances were similar for the rat and human. 6. As observed previously for humans, chemical and antibody inhibition studies suggested that CYP3A enzymes contribute significantly to TRZ hydroxylation in the rat. This finding was further supported by the use of rat cDNA-expressed CYPs. 7. The male rat might serve as a useful model for evaluating mechanisms regulating TRZ metabolism in vivo.
2932178	A revision of the metabolic disposition of amantadine.	Amantadine is one of the most commonly used drugs for the control of tremor in Parkinson's disease. Additionally, it has an antiviral action in the prevention of type A influenza. It has been previously reported that amantadine is nearly completely eliminated in the urine. No metabolites have been detected. Surprisingly, in a case of amantadine overdose, several metabolites could be identified by gas chromatography/mas spectrometry. This finding prompted us to re-investigate the metabolism of amantadine under a therapeutic dosing regimen. The bulk of the dose was eliminated unchanged. However, eight metabolites could be identified. Besides N-acetylation which is the major metabolic pathway, several rather unusual metabolic pathways were observed: N-methylation, formation of Schiff bases and N-formiates. No metabolites with a hydroxylated adamantane ring system could be detected.
17890446	In vitro metabolism study of combretastatin A-4 in rat and human liver microsomes.	The phase I biotransformation of combretastatin A-4 (CA-4) 1, a potent tubulin polymerization inhibitor with antivascular and antitumoral properties, was studied using rat and human liver subcellular fractions. The metabolites were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and detected with simultaneous UV and electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry. The assignment of metabolite structures was based on ESI-tandem mass spectrometry experiments, and it was confirmed by comparison with reference samples obtained by synthesis. O-Demethylation and aromatic hydroxylation are the two major phase I biotransformation pathways, the latter being regioselective for phenyl ring B of 1. Indeed, incubation with rat and human microsomal fractions led to the formation of a number of metabolites, eight of which were identified. The regioselectivity of microsomal oxidation was also demonstrated by the lack of metabolites arising from stilbenic double bond epoxidation. Alongside the oxidative metabolism, Z-E isomerization during in vitro study was also observed, contributing to the complexity of the metabolite pattern. Moreover, when 1 was incubated with a cytosolic fraction, metabolites were not observed. Aromatic hydroxylation at the C-6' of phenyl ring B and isomerization led to the formation of M1 and M2 metabolites, which were further oxidized to the corresponding para-quinone (M7 and M8) species whose role in pharmacodynamic activity is unknown. Metabolites M4 and M5, arising from O-demethylation of phenyl ring B, did not form the ortho-quinones. O-Demethylation of phenyl ring A formed the metabolite M3 with a complete isomerization of the stilbenic double bond.
8870991	Inhibitory and noninhibitory monoclonal antibodies to human cytochrome P450 2E1.	A panel of 17 hybridomas producing (MAbs) against human cytochrome P450 2E1 (h2E1) was generated by immunizing mice with baculovirus-expressed h2E1. All 17 hybridoma clones gave positive ELISA or immunoblots with either baculovirus-or vaccinia virus-expressed h2E1. Two of the latter were further developed due to their desirable characteristics. MAb 1-73-18 was found to be a powerful inhibitor of P450 h2E1; however, it did not yield a positive immunoblot. MAb 2-106-12 was found to be noninhibitory but formed a strong positive immunoblot with P450 h2E1. These MAbs to h2E1 were highly specific and did not recognize six other human P450s as tested with ELISA or immunoblot analyses. The MAbs to baculovirus-expressed h2E1 also reacted with h2E1 expressed from a vaccinia virus vector system as well as with microsomal fractions of human and acetone-treated rat liver. MAb 1-73-18 inhibited h2E1 enzyme activity catalyzing the metabolism of phenanthrene by 85%, p-nitroanisole by 90%, 4-methylanisole by 60-80%, toluene by 90%, and chlorzoxazone by 90%. The inhibitory MAb 1-73-18 is uniquely useful for determining the contribution of h2E1 to the metabolism of h2E1 substrates in human liver containing multiple P450s. The quantitatively determined contribution of h2E1 to the metabolism of the above substrates ranged from 25% to 75%. Thus, h2E1 was responsible for the following percentages of the total metabolism in human liver: p-nitroanisole (35%), phenanthrene (23%), methylanisole to cresol (25%), methylanisole to methoxybenzyl alcohol (12%), toluene (40%), and chlorzoxazone (72%). The MAb 2-106-12 forming a strong immunoblot is useful for determining the amount of h2E1 protein in a tissue. Thus the utility of the inhibitory and immunoblot positive MAbs is complementary and can determine both the contribution of h2E1 to the metabolism of specific substrates and the amount of h2E1 protein in human tissue. The analyses of metabolism with the inhibitory MAb 1-73-18 can be generalized and applicable to all h2E1 substrates.
19941945	Self-assembled drug delivery systems. Part 5: self-assemblies of a bolaamphiphilic prodrug containing dual zidovudine.	A bolaamphiphilic prodrug containing dual zidovudine, pentadecanedioyl dizidovudine (PDDZ), was prepared. The vesicular self-assemblies were formed in aqueous media through injecting the methanol solution of PDDZ into water. Hydrophobic interaction between lipid chains should drive molecular self-assembly. The nonionic surfactant, Tween 20, was used to increase the physical stability of self-assemblies because the surfactant micelles could prevent the assemblies from aggregating. The doping hydroxylpropylmethylcellulose (HPMC) slowed down the degradation of prodrugs due to adsorption. The self-assemblies were nanoscale with the mean particle size of 156 nm. Degradation of PDDZ was very slow in buffered solutions, but very rapid in enzyme and plasma, and the parent drug zidovudine (AZT) was the unique product. PDDZ self-assemblies showed strong anti-HIV activity on MT4 cell model. The 50% effective concentration (EC(50)) of PDDZ was 5 nM, equal to that of AZT. PDDZ was rapidly eliminated from circulation and mainly distributed into liver, spleen and testis followed by the rapid production of AZT after intravenous administration of the self-assemblies to rabbits. Macrophages in liver, spleen and testis are the reservoir of HIV so that the macrophage targeting effect of PDDZ self-assemblies would benefit to anti-HIV therapy. The self-assemblies composed of bolaamphiphilic PDDZ are a promising self-assembled drug delivery system (SADDS).
22743247	Bioactivation of the citrus flavonoid nobiletin by CYP1 enzymes in MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma cells.	Recent studies have demonstrated cytochrome P450 CYP1-mediated metabolism and CYP1-enzyme induction by naturally occurring flavonoids in cancer cell line models. The arising metabolites often exhibit higher activity than the parent compound. In the present study we investigated the CYP1-mediated metabolism of the citrus polymethoxyflavone nobiletin by recombinant CYP1 enzymes and MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma cells. Incubation of nobiletin in MCF7 cells produced one main metabolite (NM1) resulting from O-demethylation in either A or B rings of the flavone moiety. Among the three CYP1 isoforms, CYP1A1 exhibited the highest rate of metabolism of nobiletin in recombinant CYP microsomal enzymes. The intracellular CYP1-mediated bioconversion of the flavone was reduced in the presence of the CYP1A1 and CYP1B1-selective inhibitors -napthoflavone and acacetin. In addition nobiletin induced CYP1 enzyme activity, CYP1A1 protein and CYP1B1 mRNA levels in MCF7 cells at a concentration dependent manner. MTT assays in MCF7 cells further revealed that nobiletin exhibited significantly lower IC50 (44 M) compared to cells treated with nobiletin and CYP1A1 inhibitor (69 M). FACS analysis demonstrated cell a cycle block at G1 phase that was attenuated in the presence of CYP1A1 inhibitor. Taken together the data suggests that the dietary flavonoid nobiletin induces its own metabolism and in turn enhances its cytostatic effect in MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma cells, via CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 upregulation.
23973791	Development and validation of a sensitive LC-MS/MS assay for the simultaneous quantification of allitinib and its two metabolites in human plasma.	Allitinib, also known as AST1306, is a novel irreversible inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptors 1 and 2. Allitinib is currently used in clinical trial to treat solid tumors. A previous study showed that allitinib is extensively metabolized in humans. Amide hydrolysis metabolite (M6) and 29,30-dihydrodiol allitinib (M10) are the major metabolites in circulation. To study the pharmacokinetics of allitinib and its two major metabolites in cancer patients, a rapid, sensitive and reliable LC-MS/MS method was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of allitinib, M6 and M10 in human plasma. After simple protein precipitation, the analytes and the combined internal standards (lapatinib and NB-2, an analog of allitinib) were separated on a Zorbax Eclipase XDB C18 column (50 mm  4.6 mm, 1.8 m, Agilent) using a mobile phase of 5 mM ammonium acetate with 0.1% formic acid (phase A) and 50% (v/v) methanol in acetonitrile (phase B) with gradient elution. Mass spectrometric detection was conducted by atmospheric-pressure chemical ionization in positive ion multiple reaction monitoring modes using AB Sciex Triple Quad 6500 system. Linear calibration curves were obtained for the following concentration range: 0.300-200 ng/ml for allitinib; 0.030-20.0 ng/ml for M6; and 0.075-50.0 ng/ml for M10. Intra-day and inter-day accuracy and precision were within the acceptable limits of 15% at all of the concentrations. The method was successfully applied to a preliminary clinical pharmacokinetic study following oral administration of allitinib tosylate tablets in cancer patients.
20549593	Metabolites of protoberberine alkaloids in human urine following oral administration of Coptidis Rhizoma decoction.	Coptidis Rhizoma has been used as a traditional Chinese herbal medicine to treat typhoid, pharyngolaryngitis, diabetes mellitus, gastroenteritis and secretory diarrhea for more than a thousand years in China. However, there is little information on the IN VIVO chemical constituents of Coptidis Rhizoma following oral administration. In this paper, the alkaloid constituents in urine were studied in humans following oral administration of Coptidis Rhizoma decoction. Using macroporous adsorption resin chromatography, open ODS column chromatography, and preparative high-performance liquid chromatography, twelve protoberberine alkaloid constituents were isolated. Their structures were elucidated by chemical evidence, enzymatic deconjugation and analyses of mass, (1)H-NMR and NOESY spectra. The identified alkaloid constituents include berberine ( P1), groenlandicine 3-O- -D-glucuronide (M1), dehydrocheilanthifoline 2-O--D-glucuronide (M2), thalifendine 10-O--D-glucuronide (M3), jatrorrhizine 3-O--D-glucuronide (M4), columbamine 2-O--D-glucuronide (M5), berberrubine 9-O--D-glucuronide (M6), jatrorrhizine 3-O-sulfate (M7), demethyleneberberine 2-O-sulfate (M8), dehydrocorydalmine 10-O-sulfate (M9), 3,10-demethylpalmatine 10-O-sulfate (M10) and 2,3,10-trihydroxyberberine 2-O-sulfate ( M11). No other parent protoberberine alkaloids from Coptidis Rhizoma except for a trace of berberine were found in the urine. These findings suggested that the protoberberine alkaloids, which were absorbed in vivo following oral administration of Coptidis Rhizoma decoction, were mainly conjugated with glucuronic acid or sulfuric acid to form phase II metabolites directly or after biotransformation to phase I metabolites, and finally excreted in urine.
11372587	Relative contributions of CYP2C9 and 2C19 to phenytoin 4-hydroxylation in vitro: inhibition by sulfaphenazole, omeprazole, and ticlopidine.	To determine the relative contribution of cytochromes P450 (CYP) 2C9 and 2C19 to the formation of 5-(-4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantion (HPPH) from phenytoin (PPH). Hydroxylation of PPH to form HPPH was studied in vitro using human liver microsomes and microsomes from cDNA-transfected human lymphoblastoid cells. Formation of HPPH from PPH in liver microsomes had a mean (+/- SEM) apparent Km [substrate concentration corresponding to 50% of maximal reaction velocity (Vmax)] of 23.6 +/- 1.8 mumol/l. Coincubation with the CYP2C9 inhibitor, sulfaphenazole (SPA), at 5 mumol/l reduced reaction velocity to less than 15% of control values. The mean inhibitor concentration at which 50% inhibition is achieved (IC50 value) for SPA versus PPH hydroxylation (0.49 microM) was similar to the SPA IC50 versus flurbiprofen hydroxylation (0.46 microM) and tolbutamide hydroxylation (0.7-1.5 microM). In contrast, the CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (OME) at 10 mumol/l produced only a small degree of inhibition. Incubation of PPH with microsomes from cDNA-transfected human lymphoblastoid cells containing CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A4 yielded no detectable formation of HPPH. Only CYP2C9 and 2C19 had PPH hydroxylation activity, with apparent Km values for the high-affinity component of 14.6 mumol/l and 24.1 mumol/l, respectively. Based on Vmax values in liver microsomes, the Vmax and Km values in expressed CYPs and the relative abundance of the two isoforms in human liver, CYP2C9, and 2C19 were estimated to have relative contributions of 90% and 10%, respectively, to net intrinsic clearance. Formation of HPPH from PPH is mediated exclusively by CYP2C9 and 2C19, with CYP2C9 playing the major role.
21209234	CYP3A5*3 affects plasma disposition of noroxycodone and dose escalation in cancer patients receiving oxycodone.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the plasma dispositions of oxycodone and its demethylates and dose escalation based on genetic polymorphisms of CYP2D6, CYP3A5, ABCB1, and OPRM1 in cancer patients receiving oxycodone. Sixty-two Japanese cancer patients receiving oxycodone extended-release tablets were enrolled. Predose plasma concentrations (C(12)) of oxycodone, noroxycodone, and oxymorphone were determined at the titrated dose. Daily oxycodone escalation rate was evaluated as the opioid escalation index (OEI). Genetic variants did not significantly alter oxycodone C(12). Oxymorphone C(12) and its ratio to oxycodone C(12) were significantly higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers than in intermediate metabolizers but did not affect dose escalation. In contrast, noroxycodone C(12) and its ratio to oxycodone C(12) were significantly higher in the CYP3A5*1 carrier group than in the *3/*3 group. The OEI was significantly higher in the CYP3A5*3/*3 group than in the *1 carrier group. No significant difference was observed in the OEI in the other genetic variants. Noroxycodone C(12) was higher in the dose escalation group as compared to the nonescalation group and significantly affected the incidence of dose escalation. In conclusion, CYP3A5*3 altered the plasma disposition of noroxycodone, which was inversely affecting the dose escalation in cancer patients receiving oxycodone.
11417443	Duplication of CYP2D6 predicts high clearance of desipramine but high clearance does not predict duplication of CYP2D6.	Duplication of CYP2D6 causes very rapid metabolism of CYP2D6 substrates such as desipramine. However, we have previously shown that in the Danish population, only about 15% of very rapid metabolisers, defined as subjects with a metabolic ratio of sparteine of 0.15 or less, carried a duplicated allele. The question is whether gene duplication is a relatively rare cause (perhaps predictor) of very rapid metabolism or whether a low metabolic ratio is a poor predictor of this. After measuring metabolic ratios anew, we selected six volunteers with duplication of CYP2D6 and metabolic ratios ranging from 0.07 to 0.17 and six volunteers without duplication with metabolic ratios ranging from 0.08 to 0.21. Each subject took 100 mg of desipramine. Blood and urine were collected for 48 h. The median total oral clearance of desipramine was 372 l/h and 196 l/h [median difference 108 l/h (95.9% c.i., -304-598 l/h)] and the median partial clearance of desipramine by 2-hydroxylation was 155 l/h and 87 l/h [median difference 47 l/h (95.9% c.i., -124-141 l/h)] for the group with duplication and the group without duplication, respectively. The predictive value of duplication of CYP2D6 is poor; there must be other causes (or predictors) of very rapid metabolism and with much higher frequency than duplication of CYP2D6.
14768973	Degradation to sulphate of S-methyl-L-cysteine sulphoxide and S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine sulphoxide in man.	A nearly complete recovery of radioactivity was achieved over 14 days following the oral administration of [35S]-S-methyl-L-cysteine sulphoxide and [35S]-S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine sulphoxide to four healthy male volunteers. The urine was the major pathway of excretion of radioactivity (c. 96% in 0-14 days; c. 59% in 0-24 hours), with the faecal route being relatively unimportant (c. 1.7% in 0-3 days). Inorganic sulphate was an important degradation product, incorporating a substantial proportion of radioactive sulphur derived from these molecules (c. 40% in 0-14 days; c. 20% in 0-24 hours). Subtle differences were noted in the pattern of radioactive sulphate excretion following administration of the two cysteine-sulphoxide compounds, suggesting that their sulphur-containing moieties may enter different catabolic routes.
21062303	Cytochrome P450-mediated hepatic metabolism of new fluorescent substrates in cats and dogs.	This study aimed to investigate the biotransformation of cat liver microsomes in comparison to dogs and humans using a high throughput method with fluorescent substrates and classical inhibitors specific for certain isozymes of the human cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme family. The metabolic activities associated with CYP1A, CYP2B, CYP2C, CYP2D, CYP2E and CYP3A were measured. Cat liver microsomes metabolized all substrates selected for the assessment of cytochrome P450 activity. The activities associated with CYP3A and CYP2B were higher than the activities of the other measured CYPs. Substrate selectivity could be demonstrated by inhibition studies with -naphthoflavone (CYP1A), tranylcypromine/quercetine (CYP2C), quinidine (CYP2D), diethyldithiocarbamic acid (CYP2E) and ketoconazole (CYP3A) respectively. Other prototypical inhibitors used for characterization of human CYP activities such as furafylline (CYP1A), tranylcypromine (CYP2B) and sulfaphenazole (CYP2C) did not show significant effects in cat and dog liver microsomes. Moreover, IC50-values of cat CYPs differed from dog and human CYPs underlining the interspecies differences. Gender differences were observed in the oxidation of 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin (CYP2B) and 3-[2-(N, N-diethyl-N-methylamino)ethyl]-7-methoxy-4-methylcoumarin (CYP2D), which were significantly higher in male cats than in females. Conversely, oxidation of the substrates dibenzylfluorescein (CYP2C) and 7-methoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin (CYP2E) showed significant higher activities in females than in male cats. Overall CYP-activities in cat liver microsomes were lower than in those from dogs or humans, except for CYP2B. The presented difference between feline and canine CYP-activities are useful to establish dose corrections for feline patients of intensively metabolized drugs licensed for dogs or humans.
1664256	Role of human cytochrome P-450 IIE1 in the oxidation of many low molecular weight cancer suspects.	The role of human cytochrome P-450 IIE1 (P-450 IIE1) in the oxidation of a number of suspect carcinogens was examined by using a variety of approaches, including (1) selective inhibition of catalytic activity in human liver microsomes by diethyldithiocarbamate, which was found to be a selective mechanism-based inactivator of P-450 IIE1, (2) correlation of rates of different catalytic activities with each other and with chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation, an indicator of P-450 IIE1, in human liver microsomes, (3) demonstration of catalytic activity in reconstituted systems containing purified human P-450 IIE1, and (4) immunoinhibition of catalytic activity in human liver microsomes with rabbit anti-human P-450 IIE1. The results collectively indicate that P-450 IIE1 is a major catalyst of the oxidation of benzene, styrene, CCl4, CHCl3, CH2Cl2, CH3Cl, CH3CCl3, 1,2-dichloropropane, ethylene dichloride, ethylene dibromide, vinyl chloride, vinyl bromide, acrylonitrile, vinyl carbamate, ethyl carbamate, and trichloroethylene. Levels of P-450 IIE1 can vary considerably among individual humans--the availability of chlorzoxazone as a noninvasive probe of human P-450 IIE1 and of disulfiram (oxidized diethyldithiocarbamate) as an inhibitor may facilitate discernment of the in vivo significance of human P-450 IIE1 as a factor in the bioactivation and detoxication of these cancer suspects. Further, many investigations with diethyldithiocarbamate, disulfiram, and ethanol in humans and experimental animals may be interpreted in light of mechanisms involving P-450 IIE1.
16415119	Interactions of two major metabolites of prasugrel, a thienopyridine antiplatelet agent, with the cytochromes P450.	The biotransformation of prasugrel to R-138727 (2-[1-2-cyclopropyl-1-(2-fluorophenyl)-2-oxoethyl]-4-mercapto-3-piperidinylidene]acetic acid) involves rapid deesterification to R-95913 (2-[2-oxo-6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl]-1-cyclopropyl-2-(2-fluorophenyl)ethanone) followed by cytochrome P450 (P450)-mediated formation of R-138727, the metabolite responsible for platelet aggregation. For identification of the P450s responsible for the formation of the active metabolite, the current studies were conducted with R-95913 as the substrate. Incubations required supplementation with reduced glutathione. Hyperbolic kinetics (K(m) 21-30 microM), consistent with a single enzyme predominating, were observed after incubations with human liver microsomes. Correlation analyses revealed a strong relationship between R-138727 formation and CYP3A-mediated midazolam 1'-hydroxylation (r(2) = 0.98; p < 0.001) in a bank of characterized human liver microsomal samples. The human lymphoblast-expressed enzymes capable of forming R-138727, in rank order of rates, were CYP3A4>CYP2B6>CYP2C19 approximately CYP2C9>CYP2D6. A monoclonal antibody to CYP2B6 and the CYP3A inhibitor ketoconazole substantially inhibited R-138727 formation, whereas inhibitors of CYP2C9 (sulfaphenazole) and CYP2C19 (omeprazole) did not. Scaling of in vitro intrinsic clearance values from expressed enzymes to the whole liver using a relative abundance approach indicated that either CYP3A4 alone or CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 are the major contributors to R-138727 formation. R-95913 and R-138727 were also examined for their ability to inhibit metabolism mediated by five P450s. R-138727 did not inhibit the P450s tested. In vitro, R-95913 inhibited CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, with K(i) values ranging from 7.2 microM to 82 microM, but did not inhibit CYP1A2. These K(i) values exceed circulating concentrations in humans by 3.8- to 43-fold. Therefore, neither R-95913 nor R-138727 is expected to substantially inhibit the P450-mediated metabolism of coadministered drugs.
19372225	Evaluation of in vitro models for screening alkaline phosphatase-mediated bioconversion of phosphate ester prodrugs.	Generating a phosphate prodrug is one of the common approaches for circumventing poor solubility issues of a parent drug. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) level was determined in rat intestine mucosa scraps, human colon carcinoma (Caco-2) cells, and Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells to characterize in vitro models for ALP-mediated phosphate prodrug conversion. In addition, fosphenytoin and fosfluconazole were used as probe prodrugs to evaluate the models. The highest amount of ALP was detected in rat intestinal mucosa scraps, whereas ALP in 5-day cultured MDCK cells was minimal. As anticipated, ALP levels correlated with the parent drug conversion; the shortest cleavage half-life (t(1/2)) was observed in rat mucosa scraps; and MDCK cells showed the slowest conversion. Furthermore, the polarized conversion for the prodrugs was observed in Caco-2 monolayer cells, suggesting the polarized localization of alkaline in differentiated Caco-2 cells. The rate of ALP-mediated conversion was prodrug concentration-dependent with Michaelis-Menten constants of 1160 and 351 microM for fosphenytoin and fosfluconazole, respectively, determined in Caco-2 cells. The results revealed that whereas the intestinal mucosa scraps reserved the highest ALP activities and were shown as a promising in vitro tool for screening the bioconversion of phosphate prodrug, Caco-2 monolayers could provide the predictive information of bioconversion and further offer the capability in characterizing the permeability of prodrug and parent drug.
16253576	Validation and implementation of a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry assay to quantitate dimethyl benzoylphenylurea (BPU) and its five metabolites in human plasma and urine for clinical pharmacology studies.	A method has been developed for the quantitation of N-[4-(5-bromo-2-pyrimidinyloxy)-3-methylphenyl]-N'-(2-dimethylamino-benzoyl)urea (BPU) and its metabolites in human plasma and urine. BPU and metabolites were separated on a C18 column with acetonitrile-water mobile phase containing 0.1% formic acid using isocratic flow for 5 min. The analytes were monitored by tandem mass spectrometry. Calibration curves were generated over the range of 2.5-500 ng/mL for BPU, mmBPU, and aminoBPU in plasma; and 0.1-20, 0.1-20, 0.5-100, 10-2000, 1-200, and 3-600 ng/mL for BPU, mmBPU, aminoBPU, G280, G308, and G322 in urine, respectively. The method has been successfully applied to study the pharmacokinetics of BPU.
7646056	Establishment of a recombinant hepatic cell line stably expressing alcohol dehydrogenase.	Hepatocytes cultured for extended periods of time lose the ability to express alcohol dehydrogenase and thus, the ability to efficiently oxidize ethanol. Therefore, it has been difficult to investigate the effects of chronic ethanol oxidation by hepatocytes in vitro. To circumvent this problem, we have inserted the coding region of an exogenous alcohol dehydrogenase gene into an hepatic cell line. Using the human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line, Hep G2, we have constructed an hepatic cell line that stably expresses alcohol dehydrogenase. These recombinant cells, termed HAD 73.1 cells, express approximately 40% of the alcohol dehydrogenase activity of freshly isolated rat hepatocytes. When the ethanol metabolizing ability of these cells was directly measured, the results indicated that not only were these cells able to metabolize ethanol at approximately 70% of the rate of freshly isolated rat hepatocytes but acetaldehyde concentrations of up to 50 microM were detected in the medium. Furthermore, the level of acetaldehyde produced during ethanol oxidation was augmented by cyanamide, an inhibitor of acetaldehyde oxidation, while the ability of these cells to metabolize ethanol was inhibited by pyrazole, an inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase. These results suggest that this in vitro system will be a valuable tool enabling detailed biochemical studies exploring the effects of chronic ethanol oxidation on the liver and the mechanisms of alcohol-induced hepatic cell injury.
18164670	Simultaneous quantitation of dexamethasone palmitate and dexamethasone in human plasma by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	A rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method for simultaneous quantitation of dexamethasone palmitate and dexamethasone in human plasma was developed. After sample preparation by protein precipitation and liquid-liquid extraction, the analytes and internal standard (IS) were separated on a Venusil XBP-C8 column using gradient elution. Multiple reaction monitoring of dexamethasone palmitate, dexamethasone and IS used the precursor to product ion transitions at m/z 631.8-->373.1, m/z 393.2-->147.1 and m/z 264.2-->58.1, respectively. The method was linear over the ranges 1.5-1000ng/mL for dexamethasone palmitate and 2.5-250ng/mL for dexamethasone with intra- and inter-day precisions of <10% and accuracies of 100+/-7%. The assay was applied to a clinical pharmacokinetic study involving the injection of dexamethasone palmitate to healthy volunteers.
20218618	Bioavailability of anthocyanins and ellagitannins following consumption of raspberries by healthy humans and subjects with an ileostomy.	The fate of anthocyanins, ellagic acid, and ellagitannins was studied following the consumption of 300 g of raspberries by healthy human volunteers and subjects with an ileostomy. Postingestion plasma and urine from the former and ileal fluid and urine from the latter group were collected and analyzed by HPLC-PDA-MS(2). Plasma from the healthy volunteers did not contain detectable quantities of either the native raspberry polyphenolics or their metabolites. The three main raspberry anthocyanins were excreted in urine in both healthy and ileostomy volunteers 0-7 h after ingestion, in quantities corresponding to <0.1% of intake. This indicates a low level of absorption in the small intestine. With ileostomy volunteers 40% of anthocyanins and 23% of the ellagitannin sanguiin H-6 were recovered in ileal fluid with the main excretion period being the first 4 h after raspberry consumption. The recovery of ellagic acid in ileal fluid was 241%, indicating hydrolysis of ellagitannins in the stomach and/or the small intestine. Urinary excretion of ellagic acid and an ellagic acid-O-glucuronide was <1% of intake. No intact or conjugated forms of ellagitannins were detected in urine from either healthy subjects or ileostomy volunteers. However, in healthy subjects, but not the ileostomists, ellagitannins were catabolized with the appearance of urolithin A-O-glucuronide, two of its isomers, and urolithin B-O-glucuronide in urine collected 7-48 h after raspberry consumption. There was marked variation in the urolithin profile of individual volunteers, indicating differences in the colonic microflora responsible for ellagitannin degradation.
21487718	The effect of different etiologies of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of gefitinib.	We investigated whether the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of gefitinib were altered in patients with hepatic impairment due to cirrhosis or hepatic metastases in two open, parallel-group, multicenter studies. In Study 1, subjects with normal hepatic function or mild, moderate, or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh criteria) due to cirrhosis received single-dose gefitinib 250 mg (n = 10 per group). In Study 2, patients with solid malignant tumors with normal liver biochemistry (n = 18), moderate (n = 16), or severe (n = 7) hepatic impairment (liver biochemistry tests) due to metastases received gefitinib 250 mg daily for 28 days. In Study 1, the geometric mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) for gefitinib was significantly higher in patients with hepatic impairment compared with healthy subjects; hepatic impairment was associated with reduced gefitinib plasma clearance, longer half-life, and reduced plasma metabolite levels. In Study 2, the geometric mean gefitinib steady-state AUC during the 24-h dosing interval was slightly, but not significantly, higher in patients with moderate hepatic impairment; there were, however, no significant differences between groups in gefitinib and metabolite pharmacokinetic parameters. In both studies, gefitinib was well tolerated across all cohorts. We conclude that the effect of hepatic impairment on gefitinib pharmacokinetics depends on the underlying etiology of that impairment and its classification.
19803472	Bioactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor gefitinib: implications for pulmonary and hepatic toxicities.	Gefitinib is an inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase and has been approved for the treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer refractory to established cancer treatments. Several cases of adverse hepatic and pulmonary events have been reported, which led to discontinuation of therapy. While the mechanism of toxicity remains unknown, we present evidence that gefitinib accumulates in the liver and lung, and it can be bioactivated in hepatic, intestinal, and pulmonary microsomes to form a reactive metabolite. The reactive metabolite was trapped by the peptide mimetic GSH, indicating that the metabolite was sufficiently reactive to bind to the cysteine groups of proteins. Two cytochrome P450-dependent gefitinib-GSH adducts were detected, and P450 1A1 and 3A4 were found to be the major enzymes responsible for adduct formation. The mechanism of bioactivation is proposed to involve oxidative defluorination of gefitinib to form a reactive quinone-imine. Clinical reports have noted an increase in adverse pulmonary events with patients who continued smoking. Consistent with the clinical toxicology data, a 12-fold increase in GSH adduct formation was detected in human pulmonary microsomes from smokers over nonsmokers, in agreement with P450 1A1 being induced by cigarette smoke.
12018987	Regioselectivity of phase II metabolism of luteolin and quercetin by UDP-glucuronosyl transferases.	The regioselectivity of phase II conjugation of flavonoids is expected to be of importance for their biological activity. In the present study, the regioselectivity of phase II biotransformation of the model flavonoids luteolin and quercetin by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases was investigated. Identification of the metabolites formed in microsomal incubations with luteolin or quercetin was done using HPLC, LC-MS, and (1)H NMR. The results obtained demonstrate the major sites for glucuronidation to be the 7-, 3-, 3'-, or 4'-hydroxyl moiety. Using these unequivocal identifications, the regioselectivity of the glucuronidation of luteolin and quercetin by microsomal samples from different origin, i.e., rat and human intestine and liver, as well as by various individual human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoenzymes was characterized. The results obtained reveal that regioselectivity is dependent on the model flavonoid of interest, glucuronidation of luteolin and quercetin not following the same pattern, depending on the isoenzyme of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) involved. Human UGT1A1, UGT1A8, and UGT1A9 were shown to be especially active in conjugation of both flavonoids, whereas UGT1A4 and UGT1A10 and the isoenzymes from the UGTB family, UGT2B7 and UGT2B15, were less efficient. Due to the different regioselectivity and activity displayed by the various UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, regioselectivity and rate of flavonoid conjugation varies with species and organ. Qualitative comparison of the regioselectivities of glucuronidation obtained with human intestine and liver microsomes to those obtained with human UGT isoenzymes indicates that, in human liver, especially UGT1A9 and, in intestine, UGT1A1 and UGT1A8 are involved in glucuronidation of quercetin and luteolin. Taking into account the fact that the anti-oxidant action as well as the pro-oxidant toxicity of these catechol-type flavonoids is especially related to their 3',4'-dihydroxyl moiety, it is of interest to note that the human intestine UGT's appear to be especially effective in conjugating this 3',4' catechol unit. This would imply that upon glucuronidation along the transport across the intestinal border, the flavonoids loose a significant part of these biological activities.
1523859	Urinary metabolites of phenobarbitone, primidone, and their N-methyl and N-ethyl derivatives in humans.	1. Phenobarbitone (1) and three of its N-alkyl derivatives, and primidone (10) and four of its N-alkyl derivatives, were orally administered separately to two human volunteers. Total urine was collected for approximately 2 weeks following each dose, and the drugs and their metabolites were assayed by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry. 2. Recoveries in the phenobarbitone series increased from approximately 40% to approximately 50% as alkylation of (1) increased. There was a linear relationship between the extent of p-hydroxylation and the lipophilicity (log P) of the substrates. The increased total recovery was largely attributable to increased p-hydroxylation. 3. Urinary recoveries in the primidone series decreased from approximately 80% for (10) to approximately 30% for its diakyl derivatives, despite a slight increase in p-hydroxylation with increasing alkylation (and increasing lipophilicity). The decreased recovery was mainly the result of decreased urinary excretion of the drug.
8603487	Glucuronidation of N-hydroxy metabolites of N-acetylbenzidine.	Glucuronidation of N-hydroxy arylamines is thought to be a necessary step in their initiation of bladder cancer. This was evaluated for the N-hydroxy metabolites of N-acetylbenzidine (ABZ). N'-Hydroxy-N-acetylbenzidine (N'-HA), N-hydroxy-N-acetylbenzidine (N-HA) and N-hydroxy- N,N'-diacetylbenzidine (N-HDA) were synthesized. Except for N'-HA, these compounds were quite stable. Ascorbic acid and/or acidic pH increased the stability of N'-HA. When each N-hydroxy compound was added to reaction mixtures containing [14C]UDP-glucuronic acid, 3 mM ascorbic acid and human liver microsomes a new product was detected by HPLC. Emulgen 911 was a better detergent than Triton X-100 for expressing microsomal activity, with maximal glucuronidation observed with 0.3% Emulgen 911. At 0.125 mM amine the rate of glucuronidation was N-HDA >> N'-HA = benzidine > ABZ > N-HA. In contrast, at 0.5 mM amine the rate of glucuronidation of N-HA was only exceeded by N-HDA. At pH 5.5 and 37 degrees C the t1/2 for the enzymatically prepared glucuronide conjugates of ABZ, N'-HA and N-HA were 7.5 min and 3.5 and 1.8 h respectively. For N-HDA > 90% of this glucuronide remained after 24 h. At pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C the t1/2 for the glucuronide conjugates of ABZ and N-HA were 2.3 and 2 h respectively, with the amounts remaining after 24 h for N'-HA and N-HDA being 75 and 90% respectively. At pH 6.5 the t1/2 for N'-HA was 14 h. Thus only glucuronides of ABZ and N'-HA exhibit pH-dependent changes in t1/2. Compared with ABZ, glucuronides the N-hydroxy metabolites are more stable at acidic pH. Acidic urine would be more likely to hydrolyze the glucuronide conjugate of ABZ than those of its N-hydroxy metabolites. Because these results are different from that hypothesized for arylmonoamines, a new model was developed to explain the role of N-oxidation, N-glucuronidation and N-acetylation in the carcinogenesis of benzidine, an aryldiamine.
19373887	N-(3,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)-4-(6,7-dimethoxy-3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2[1H]-yl)-6,7-dimethoxyquinazolin-2-amine (CP-100,356) as a "chemical knock-out equivalent" to assess the impact of efflux transporters on oral drug absorption in the rat.	The utility of the diaminoquinazoline derivative CP-100,356 as an in vivo probe to selectively assess MDR1/BCRP-mediated drug efflux was examined in the rat. CP-100,356 was devoid of inhibition (IC(50) >50 microM) against major human P450 enzymes including P4503A4. In human MDR1-transfected MDCKII cells, CP-100,356 inhibited acetoxymethyl calcein (calcein-AM) uptake (IC(50) approximately 0.5 +/- 0.07 microM) and digoxin transport (IC(50) approximately 1.2 +/- 0.1 microM). Inhibition of prazosin transport (IC(50) approximately 1.5 +/- 0.3 microM) in human BCRP-transfected MDCKII cells by CP-100,356 confirmed the dual MDR1/BCRP inhibitory properties. CP-100,356 was a weak inhibitor of OATP1B1 (IC(50) approximately 66 +/- 1.1 microM) and was devoid of MRP2 inhibition (IC(50) >15 microM). In vivo inhibitory effects of CP-100,356 in rats were examined after coadministration with MDR1 substrate fexofenadine and dual MDR1/BCRP substrate prazosin. Coadministration with increasing doses of CP-100,356 resulted in dramatic increases in systemic exposure of fexofenadine (36- and 80-fold increase in C(max) and AUC at a CP-100,356 dose of 24 mg/kg). Significant differences in prazosin pharmacokinetics were also discernible in CP-100,356-pretreated rats as reflected from a 2.6-fold increase in AUC. Coadministration of CP-100,356 and P4503A substrate midazolam did not result in elevations in systemic exposure of midazolam in the rat. The in vivo methodology should have utility in drug discovery in selective and facile assessment of the role of MDR1 and BCRP efflux transporters in oral absorption of new drug candidates.
8293546	Sulfation of aromatic hydroxamic acids and hydroxylamines by multiple forms of human liver sulfotransferases.	Sulfation activity towards various heterocyclic and homocyclic aromatic hydroxamic acids and hydroxylamines was determined in adult human liver cytosol and with partially purified human liver sulfotransferases (STs). In adult human liver cytosols comparable ST activities towards N-hydroxy-2-acetyl-amino-5-phenylpyridine (N-OH-2AAPP), N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl (N-OH-4AABP) and N-hydroxy-4'fluoro-4-acetylaminobiphenyl (N-OH-4FAABP) were found, while the sulfation rates towards N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (N-OH-2AAF), N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminonaphthalene (N-OH-2AAN), N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminophenanthrene (N-OH-2AAP) and N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminostilbene (N-OH-4AAS) were two- to five-fold lower. In adult liver cytosol ST activity was found towards all hydroxylamines tested. No significant differences were found for the various hydroxylamines. In general, the ST activities towards the various hydroxamic acids and hydroxylamines were comparable to phenol ST activity using adult liver cytosols. Partial purification of adult human liver STs was achieved by DEAE-Sepharose chromatography followed by anion exchange FPLC. Two separated protein peaks showing both N-OH-2AAPP and N-OH-2APP ST activities were observed and were designated human hydroxylamine/hydroxamic acid sulfotransferase (hHST) 1 and 2. Immunoblot analysis using an anti-rat estrogen ST antibody demonstrated cross reactivity with both hHSTs at a subunit mol. wt of 32 kDa corresponding to the phenol-sulfating form of phenol ST (P-PST). ST activity towards dopamine was low with both hHSTs, but hHST1 also contained significant capacity to sulfate dehydroepiandrosterone. The highest ST activity towards N-OH-2AAPP and N-OH-2APP was measured at pH 5.5 with both hHSTs. The Km values of the two hHSTs for sulfation of N-OH-2AAPP and N-OH-2APP were comparable, while the Vmax values for sulfation of N-OH-2APP were higher than for N-OH-2AAP with both hHSTs. FPLC anion exchange analysis of human platelet STs demonstrated that sulfation of N-OH-4ABP and N-OH-4AABP was associated with P-PST rather than M-PST (platelets do not possess any significant DHEA ST activity). Our results show that the various hydroxamic acids and hydroxylamines are converted by at least two hHSTs. The results presented here for the human liver hydroxamic acid and hydroxylamine ST activities are discussed in relation to those observed in the rat.
21540359	Characterization of recombinant human carboxylesterases: fluorescein diacetate as a probe substrate for human carboxylesterase 2.	Human carboxylesterase (CES) 1 and CES2 are members of the serine hydrolase superfamily, and both exhibit broad substrate specificity and are involved in xenobiotic and endobiotic metabolism. Although expression of CES1 and CES2 occurs in several organs, their expression in liver and small intestine is predominantly attributed to CES1 and CES2, respectively. We successfully expressed CES1 form b (CES1-b) and form c (CES1-c) as well as CES2 in baculovirus-infected High Five insect cells. With 4-nitrophenyl acetate (4-NPA) as the probe substrate, the K(m) values of recombinant CES1-b and CES2 matched those of human liver microsomes (HLM) and human intestinal microsomes (HIM) with approximately 200 and 180 M, respectively. Bis(4-nitrophenyl) phosphate potently inhibited 4-NPA hydrolysis by HLM, CES1-b, CES1-c, HIM, and CES2 with IC(50) values less than 1 M. With fluorescein diacetate (FD) as the substrate, the K(m) values were similar for all enzyme systems, with the exception of CES1-b, which was slightly lower; however, the V(max) values for HIM and CES2 were 39.5 and 14.6 mol  mg(-1)  min(-1), respectively, which were at least 50-fold higher than those of CES1-b or CES1-c. Loperamide potently inhibited HLM, HIM, and CES2 with similar IC(50) values of approximately 1 M. Substrate specificity was compared between human tissues and recombinant enzymes. The data suggest the following: 1) FD is a probe substrate for CES2; 2) CES1-b is the predominant form in human liver; and 3) recombinant CES1-b and CES2 expressed in insect cells are functionally consistent with native carboxylesterases expressed in human liver and intestine, respectively.
17555645	Rapid quantification of buprenorphine-glucuronide and norbuprenorphine-glucuronide in human urine by LC-MS-MS.	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method was developed and validated for the determination of buprenorphine-glucuronide (BUP-G) and norbuprenorphine-glucuronide (NBUP-G) in human urine. The method included a dilution step followed by filtration through a Mini-Uniprep Filter and direct injection onto the LC column. The analytes were quantified in multiple reactions monitoring mode using one transition ion. Norbuprenorpine-d(3) (NBUP-d(3)) was used as the internal standard. The concentration ranges were 6-161 ng/mL for BUP-G and 12-295 ng/mL for NBUP-G. Recoveries determined after filtration for the analytes were 75%. The between-day precision of the method was in the range of 4.8-11%. The limits of quantification were found to be 4.6 ng/mL for BUP-G and 11.8 ng/mL for NBUP-G. Approximately 1000 samples from law enforcement, prison inmates, probation services, and hospitals were analyzed by the presented method. The ratios of drug glucuronides versus creatinine were calculated for a selection of samples (n = 151), where there was information on treatment with buprenorphine between 16 and 20 mg/day. The majority (86%) of the samples had a ratio of BUP-G/creatinine below 570 microg/g, and 76% of the samples had NBUP-G/creatinine lower than 1060 microg/g. The LC-MS-MS method proved to be robust and specific for the determination of BUP-G and NBUP-G in urine.
17345085	A phase I study of bi-weekly administration of 24-h gemcitabine followed by 24-h irinotecan in patients with solid tumors.	To determine the maximal tolerated doses (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of combination of 24-h infusions of gemcitabine and irinotecan in patients with advanced solid tumors. Twenty-four patients with advanced solid tumors received gemcitabine as a 24-h IV infusion followed by a 24-h infusion of irinotecan every 2 weeks. Pharmacokinetic parameters of both drugs and their metabolites were estimated by using non-compartmental methods. Twenty-four patients were fully evaluable for toxicity. DLT was observed in two of six patients at irinotecan/gemcitabine 110/150 mg/m(2) (grade 3 diarrhea and grade 3 GI bleeding). No patient developed acute cholinergic symptoms at any dose. Other toxicities were < or =grade 2 nausea, vomiting, and fatigue. Tumor responses were observed in three patients (one CR: cholangiocarcinoma; two PR: SCLC, gastric neuroendocrine tumor). Stable disease >3 months was found in six patients including five patients who had failed short infusions of either drug. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed that C (max) of each drug and active metabolites were dose-dependent. High dose of gemcitabine increased C (max), AUC, and T(1/2) of irinotecan. However, gemcitabine had minimal effects on SN-38. The recommended dose for Phase II studies is gemcitabine 125 mg/m(2) given as a 24-h IV infusion on D1 and D15, followed by a 24-h IV infusion of irinotecan 110 mg/m(2) on D2 and D16. Both pretreated patients and chemo-naive patients seem to tolerate higher doses of this combination without significant toxicities. Objective responses among patients with solid tumors, in particular cholangiocarcinoma and small cell lung cancer merits further investigation.
20100913	A proof-of-concept and drug-drug interaction study of pamapimod, a novel p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, with methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	This study evaluated the potential pharmacokinetic interaction of pamapimod, a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor, and methotrexate (MTX) when administered concomitantly in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA); the study also evaluated the pharmacodynamic effects of pamapimod. Twenty-two RA patients on a stable regimen of MTX (10-25 mg/wk; administered on days 1 and 8) were randomized to receive 300 mg of pamapimod (n = 17) or placebo (n = 5) once daily (qd) for 10 days (days 5-14). Blood and urine samples were collected pre- and postdose on days 1 (MTX alone), 7 (pamapimod alone), and 8 (MTX and pamapimod coadministered). No clinically significant changes were observed in plasma exposures and renal clearance of pamapimod, MTX, or their metabolites, whether administered separately or concomitantly. The combination of pamapimod (300 mg qd) for 10 days and weekly MTX was generally well tolerated. Parameters of RA disease--namely, tender joint count, swollen joint count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein--generally decreased between days 5 and 14. The results of this study suggest that dose adjustments for either drug are not necessary when concomitantly administered and that pamapimod can decrease pharmacodynamic markers of disease activity.
16763093	Intestinal and hepatic metabolic activity of five cytochrome P450 enzymes: impact on prediction of first-pass metabolism.	The contribution of the gut is not routinely incorporated into in vitro-in vivo predictions of either clearance or drug-drug interactions, and this omission may partially explain the general underprediction trend often observed. In the current study, the metabolic ability of hepatic and intestinal pooled microsomes was compared for eight CYP3A substrates (midazolam, triazolam, diazepam, alprazolam, flunitrazepam, nifedipine, testosterone, and quinidine) and paclitaxel, tolbutamide, S-mephenytoin, and bufuralol as CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6 probes, respectively. A general agreement in the type of kinetics was observed between the two systems for the substrates investigated. Of the 16 pathways investigated, 75% of K(m) (S(50)) values obtained in intestinal microsomes (5.9-769 microM) were within 2-fold of hepatic estimates. Irrespective of the cytochrome P450 (P450) investigated and normalization of V(max) values for the P450 abundance, clearance was 4.5- to 50-fold lower in intestinal microsomes (0.0005-0.51 microl/min/P450) compared with the hepatic estimates (0.002-5.8 microl/min/P450), whereas the rank order was consistent between the systems. Assessment of two enterocyte isolation methods (mucosal scraping or enterocyte elution) was performed at the substrate concentrations corresponding to the determined V(max) conditions for 11 pathways. The activity difference between the methods (3-29-fold) was P450-related in the following rank order: CYP2C19 > CYP3A4 > CYP2C9 approximately CYP2D6. After correction for the loss of activity between the methods, the intrinsic activities of hepatic and intestinal CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6 were comparable for the 16 pathways. The implications of these findings on the prediction of intestinal first-pass metabolism are discussed.
16306851	Population pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and its metabolites 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide, and phosphoramide mustard in a high-dose combination with Thiotepa and Carboplatin.	The anticancer prodrug cyclophosphamide (CP) is activated by the formation of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4OHCP), which decomposes into phosphoramide mustard (PM). This activation pathway is inhibited by thiotepa. CP is inactivated by formation of 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (2DCECP). The aim of this study was to develop a population pharmacokinetic model describing the complex pharmacokinetics of CP, 4OHCP, 2DCECP, and PM when CP is administered in a high-dose combination with thiotepa and carboplatin. Patients received a combination of CP (1000-1500 mg/m/d), carboplatin (265-400 mg/m/d), and thiotepa (80-120 mg/m/d) administered in short infusions over 4 days. Twenty blood samples were collected per patient per course. Concentrations of CP, 4OHCP, 2DCECP, PM, thiotepa, and tepa were determined in plasma. Using NONMEM, an integrated population pharmacokinetic model was used to describe the pharmacokinetics of CP, 4OHCP, 2DCECP, and PM, including the already described processes of autoinduction of CP and the interaction with thiotepa. Data were available on 35 patients (70 courses). The pharmacokinetics of CP were described with a 2-compartment model, and those of 4OHCP, 2DCECP, and PM with 1-compartment models. Before onset of autoinduction, it was assumed that CP is eliminated through a noninducible pathway accounting for 20% of total CP clearance, whereas 2 inducible pathways resulted in formation of 4OHCP (75%) and 2DCECP (5%). It was assumed that 4OHCP was fully converted to PM. Induction of CP metabolism was mediated by 2 hypothetical amounts of enzyme whose quantities increased in time in the presence of CP (kenz=0.0223 and 0.0198 hours). Induction resulted in an increased formation of 4OHCP (approximately 50%), PM (approximately 50%), and 2DCECP (approximately 35%) during the 4-day course, and concomitant decreased exposure to CP (approximately 50%). The formation of 2DCECP was not inhibited by thiotepa. Apparent volumes of distribution of CP, PM, and 2DCECP could be estimated being 43.7, 55.5, and 18.5 L, respectively. Exposure to metabolites varied up to 9-fold. The complex population pharmacokinetics of CP, 4OHCP, 2DCECP, and PM in combination with thiotepa and carboplatin has been established and may form the basis for further treatment optimization with this combination.
15998116	Identification of urolithin a as a metabolite produced by human colon microflora from ellagic acid and related compounds.	Dietary ellagic acid and related polyphenols are metabolized in humans to dibenzopyran-6-one derivatives, and the microbial origin of these metabolites has been suggested. However, this has not been demonstrated so far. Fecal samples donated by six volunteers were incubated under anaerobic conditions, and aliquots were used to evaluate the fecal metabolism of ellagic acid, the ellagitannin punicalagin, and an ellagitannin rich extract from walnuts. The isoflavone daidzein was also incubated with the same fecal samples to follow the production of the microbial metabolites previously reported (dihydrogenistein, O-demethylangolensin, and equol) as a positive control of the system and to evaluate similarities between isoflavone and ellagic acid fecal flora metabolism. After fermentation the metabolite "urolithin A" (3,8-dihydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one) was produced from ellagic acid, punicalagin, and the ellagitannin extract in all the fecal cultures from different volunteers, but with very different production rates and concentrations. This large variability in the concentration of metabolite and kinetics of metabolite production is consistent with the large variability found in the excretion of these metabolites in urine in vivo after human consumption of ellagitannins, and with differences in the composition of the fecal microflora. No correlation between isoflavone and ellagic acid metabolism by fecal microflora was observed. The present study confirms the microbial origin of the recently reported in vivo generated hydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one derivatives in humans and is a further step in the study of the bioavailability and metabolism of ellagic acid and ellagitannins.
18020424	Sequential metabolism and bioactivation of the hepatotoxin benzbromarone: formation of glutathione adducts from a catechol intermediate.	Benzbromarone (BBR) is a uricosuric agent that has been used as a treatment for chronic gout. Although never approved in the United States, BBR was recently withdrawn from European markets due to several clinical cases linking the drug to an idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity that is sometimes fatal. We report here a possible mechanism of toxicity that involves the bioactivation of BBR through sequential hydroxylation of the benzofuran ring to a catechol, which can then be further oxidized to a reactive quinone intermediate capable of adducting protein. NADPH-supplemented human liver microsomes generated a single metabolite that was identified as 6-OH BBR by comparison with the synthesized chemical standard. CYP2C9 was the major recombinant enzyme capable of catalyzing the formation of 6-OH BBR, although CYP2C19 also showed a lower degree of activity. Further oxidation of either 6-OH BBR or 5-OH BBR by human liver microsomes resulted in the formation of a dihydroxy metabolite with identical chromatographic and mass spectral properties. This product of sequential metabolism of BBR was identified as the catechol, 5,6-dihydroxybenzbromarone. Incubation of the catechol with liver microsomes, in the presence of glutathione, resulted in the formation of two glutathione adducts that could derive from a single ortho-quinone intermediate. Isoform profiling with recombinant human P450s suggested that CYP2C9 is primarily responsible for the formation of this reactive quinone intermediate.
7861751	Benzodiazepine screening using EMIT II and TDx: urine hydrolysis pretreatment required.	Urine specimens were collected from individuals prescribed oral doses of the following benzodiazepine tablets: diazepam, oxazepam, temazepam, lorazepam, alprazolam, flurazepam, and chlordiazepoxide. An aliquot was hydrolyzed using Helix pomatia beta-glucuronidase. Both the hydrolyzed and unhydrolyzed urine pairs were subjected to EMIT II and TDx immunoassay screening tests and to gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric quantitation. Hydrolysis is required to ensure adequate detection of oxazepam, temazepam, and lorazepam with either screening method. A 100-ng/mL cutoff is required when screening for lorazepam, following therapeutic doses. The EMIT II is more sensitive than the TDx as a screening test for benzodiazepines.
8824531	Cytochrome P450 metabolic dealkylation of nine N-nitrosodialkylamines by human liver microsomes.	The metabolic dealkylation of nine nitrosodialkylamines, including five symmetrical (nitrosodimethylamine, nitrosodiethylamine, nitrosodipropylamine, nitrosodibutylamine and nitrosodiamylamine) and four asymmetrical nitrosodialkylamines (nitrosomethylethylamine, nitrosomethylpropylamine, nitrosomethylbutylamine and nitrosomethylamylamine), was investigated in 14 samples of human liver microsomes. All these nitrosodialkylamines were dealkytated to aldehydes that were separated by reversed phase HPLC and UV detected as dinitrophenylhydrazones. As the length of the alkyl chain increased from methyl to pentyl, dealkylation of symmetrical nitrosodialkylamines became less efficiently catalyzed by cytochrome P450. Conversely, oxidation of the methyl moiety of asymmetrical nitrosomethylalkylamines increased with the size of the alkyl moiety, while dealkylation of the longer alkyl group decreased. N-Dealkylase activities were significantly correlated with P450 activities measured in human liver microsomes. These catalytic activities involve CYP2A6 (coumarin 7-hydroxylation), CYP2C (mephenytoin 4-hydroxylation and tolbutamide hydroxylation), CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan O-demethylation), CYP2E1 (chlorzoxazone and p-nitrophenol hydroxylation) and CYP3A4 (nifedipine oxidation). By using 10 heterologously expressed P450s, it was shown that nitrosodimethylamine was mainly demethylated by CYP2E1. However, such enzyme specificity was lost with increasing size of the alkyl group. Therefore, the chain length of the alkyl group of nitrosodialkylamines determined the P450 involved in its oxidation. All these results emphasize that the catalytic site of P450 2EI has a geometric configuration such that only small molecules like nitrosodimethylamine fit favorably within the putative active site of the enzyme. Furthermore, there is good evidence that P450s other than P450 2E1, such as P450 2A6, 2C8/2C9/2C19 and 3A4, are involved in the metabolism of nitrosodialkylamines bearing bulky alkyl chains.
15556551	Enantioselective pharmacokinetics of lercanidipine in healthy volunteers.	The enantioselective kinetic disposition of lercanidipine, a dihydropyridine type of third-generation calcium antagonist, was investigated in six healthy male volunteers following a single 20 mg racemic oral dose. Serial plasma samples were obtained from 0 to 24 h after drug administration. Lercanidipine enantiomers were analysed using a chiral LC-MS-MS method. The following differences (p < 0.05, Wilcoxon test) between (S) and (R) enantiomers were found (median): C(max) 2.071 ng mL(-1) versus 1.681 ng mL(-1); AUC(0-24)12.352 ng h mL(-1) versus 10.063 ng h mL(-1) and Cl/f 732.16 L h(-1) versus 1891.84 L h(-1). The AUC(0-infinity) values for (S)-LER were 1.21-fold higher than those for (R)-LER. The pharmacokinetics of LER was enantioselective in healthy volunteers following a single dose of 20 mg of the unlabeled racemic drug.
8872240	Gas chromatographic determination of urinary o-cresol for the monitoring of toluene exposure.	A sensitive and reproducible gas chromatographic procedure for the quantitative determination of urinary o-cresol is described. The first step involves acid hydrolysis (2N HCl, 100 degrees C, 10 min), which yields unconjugated o-cresol. After extraction (methylene chloride, pH 2), the organic layer is concentrated by evaporation and samples are analyzed by gas chromatography-flame ionization detection with a DB-5 column (30 m x 0.25 mm, 0.25 microns). Initial oven temperature is set at 30 degrees C for 12 min and the increased 2 degrees C/min to 93 decrees C. 3,4-Dimethylphenol is used as the internal standard. The detection limit of the method is 0.36 mumol/L (1 microL injection). Additional validation data were obtained by analysis of urine samples collected from volunteers exposed to various concentrations of toluene: 10, 20, 30, 50, and 100 ppm over 7 h. Urinary o-cresol concentrations (0-3, 3-7, 7-24, and 0-24 h) were highly correlated with toluene exposure.
19007508	Ethyl glucuronide excretion in humans following oral administration of and dermal exposure to ethanol.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a direct ethanol biomarker and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has advised that specificity studies at low EtG levels are needed for distinction of ethanol consumption and incidental exposure. The authors report urinary EtG excretion with ethanol abstinence, dermal exposure and oral consumption. EtG concentration by sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry measurement in 39 urine specimens from adult alcohol abstainers (< 10-62 microg/L) and in urine from 13 children (< 10-80 microg/L) indicates either unrecognized ethanol exposure or endogenous ethanol metabolism. With repetitive daily dermal exposure to hand sanitizer (60% ethanol) by 9 adults, EtG concentration ranged from < 10 to 114 microg/L in 88 first-morning void specimens. EtG excretion following a 24 g ethanol drink by 4 adults revealed maximum urine EtG concentration (12,200-83,200 microg/L) at 3 to 8 h postdose and an EtG detection window up to 25-39 h, compared to an ethanol window of only 2 to 4 h. Oral ethanol use also showed an increase in the percent (molar equivalent) ethanol excreted as EtG with increasing oral ethanol doses. Human excretion studies show 1. EtG detectable at low concentration (< 100 microg/L) when ethanol use or exposures is not evident, 2. EtG concentration less than 120 microg/L in first morning specimens from adults with repeated dermal exposure to ethanol, 3. EtG levels maximally elevated within 3-8 h and above baseline for up to 39 h after a 24 g ethanol drink, and 4. a dose-dependent increase in the percentage of ethanol excreted as EtG with increasing oral ethanol use.
22041109	Mass balance study of [C]eribulin in patients with advanced solid tumors.	This mass balance study investigated the metabolism and excretion of eribulin, a nontaxane microtubule dynamics inhibitor with a novel mechanism of action, in patients with advanced solid tumors. A single approximately 2 mg (approximately 80 Ci) dose of [C]eribulin acetate was administered as a 2 to 5 min bolus injection to six patients on day 1. Blood, urine, and fecal samples were collected at specified time points on days 1 to 8 or until sample radioactivity was 1% of the administered dose. Mean plasma eribulin exposure (627 ng  h/ml) was comparable with that of total radioactivity (568 ng Eq  h/ml). Time-matched concentration ratios of eribulin to total radioactivity approached unity in blood and plasma, indicating that unchanged parent compound constituted almost all of the eribulin-derived radioactivity. Only minor metabolites were detected in plasma samples up to 60 min postdose, pooled across patients, each metabolite representing 0.6% of eribulin. Elimination half-lives for eribulin (45.6 h) and total radioactivity (42.3 h) were comparable. Eribulin-derived radioactivity excreted in feces was 81.5%, and that of unchanged eribulin was 61.9%. Renal clearance (0.301 l/h) was a minor component of total eribulin clearance (3.93 l/h). Eribulin-derived radioactivity excreted in urine (8.9%) was comparable with that of unchanged eribulin (8.1%), indicating minimal excretion of metabolite(s) in urine. Total recovery of the radioactive dose was 90.4% in urine and feces. Overall, no major metabolites of eribulin were detected in plasma. Eribulin is eliminated primarily unchanged in feces, whereas urine constitutes a minor route of elimination.
16946542	Metabolism of tomato steroidal glycosides in humans.	Pregnane glycosides have been isolated in small amounts, along with the major components furostanol and spirostanol glycosides, from Dioscoreaceae, Taccaceae, and Solanaceae, suggesting that pregnane glycosides might be biosynthesized from furostanol and spirostanol glycosides. Recently, commercial natural foods composed of diosgenin have been used for the treatment of diseases such as osteoporosis and premenstrual syndrome in women. It is anticipated that diosgenin would be metabolized into a type of steroidal hormone, for instance progesterone, however, this metabolism has not been confirmed. Therefore, we have examined the metabolites in the urine of subjects who ingested tomatoes, which contain a considerable amount of the steroidal glycoside esculeoside A. The occurrence of steroidal hormones in the metabolites has been recognized. It has been proven that when a steroidal glycoside is administered, it is partly metabolized into a type of steroidal hormone exhibiting various physiological activities.
15383492	Evidence of significant contribution from CYP3A5 to hepatic drug metabolism.	CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 exhibit significant overlap in substrate specificity but can differ in product regioselectivity and formation activity. To further explore this issue, we compared the kinetics of product formation for eight different substrates, using heterologously expressed CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and phenotyped human liver microsomes. Both enzymes displayed allosteric behavior toward six of the substrates. When it occurred, the "maximal" intrinsic clearance was used for quantitative comparisons. Based on this parameter, CYP3A5 was more active than CYP3A4 in catalyzing total midazolam hydroxylation (3-fold) and lidocaine demethylation (1.4-fold). CYP3A5 exhibited comparable metabolic activity as CYP3A4 (90-110%) toward dextromethorphan N-demethylation and carbamazepine epoxidation. CYP3A5-catalyzed erythromycin N-demethylation, total flunitrazepam hydroxylation, testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, and terfenadine alcohol formation occurred with an intrinsic clearance that was less than 65% that of CYP3A4. Using two sets of human liver microsomes with equivalent CYP3A4-specific content but markedly different CYP3A5 content (group 1, predominantly CYP3A4; group 2, CYP3A4 + CYP3A5), we assessed the contribution of CYP3A5 to product formation rates determined at low substrate concentrations (< or = Km). Mean product formation rates for group 2 microsomes were 1.4- to 2.2-fold higher than those of group 1 (p < 0.05 for 5 of 8 substrates). After adjusting for CYP3A4 activity (itraconazole hydroxylation), mean product formation rates for group 2 microsomes were still significantly higher than those of group 1 (p < 0.05 for 3 substrates). We suggest that, under conditions when CYP3A5 content represents a significant fraction of the total hepatic CYP3A pool, the contribution of CYP3A5 to the clearance of some drugs may be an important source of interindividual variability.
14729419	Unusual side-effects due to clobazam: a case report with genetic study of CYP2C19.	We describe the case of a 10-year-old girl with two epileptic seizures and subcontinuous spike-waves during sleep, who presented unusual side-effects related to clobazam (CLB) monotherapy. High plasma levels of N-desmethyl-clobazam (N-CLB), the major metabolite of CLB were detected. The patient and her parents underwent molecular analysis of the CYP2C19 gene, which may be implicated in the metabolism of this drug. Our patient presents one copy of the most common mutation (CYP2C19*2) affecting the activity of the isoenzyme and probably another rare or private mutation. CLB and N-CLB plasma level dosages and molecular analysis may be useful when a poor metabolic condition is suspected.
15639452	Simultaneous determination of benazepril hydrochloride and benazeprilat in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray-mass spectrometry.	An analytical method for simultaneous determination of benazepril and its active metabolite, benazeprilat, in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray-mass spectrometry was developed and validated. Rutaecarpine was selected as the internal standard. The separation was achieved on a C(18) column with acetonitrile and aqueous solution (0.1% formic acid) as mobile phase with a gradient mode. The quantification of target compounds was using a selective ionization recording at m/z 425.5 for benazepril, m/z 397.5 for benzeprilat and m/z 288.3 for rutaecarpine. The correlation coefficients of the calibration curves were better than 0.992 (n = 6), in the range of 6.67-666.67 ng/ml for benazepril and benazeprilat. The inter- and intra-day accuracy, precision, linear range had been investigated in detail. The method can be used to assess the bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of the drug.
17416213	Development of a sensitive liquid chromatography method coupled with a tandem mass spectrometric detection for the clinical analysis of vinflunine and 4-O-deacetyl vinflunine in blood, urine and faeces.	A sensitive and specific liquid chromatographic method coupled with tandem mass spectrometric detection was set up and fully validated for the simultaneous quantification of vinflunine (VFL) and its pharmacologically active metabolite, 4-O-deacetyl vinflunine (DVFL). The two compounds, as well as vinblastine (used as internal standard), were deproteinised from blood and faeces, analysed on a cyano type column and detected on a Micromass Quattro II system in the positive ion mode after ionisation using an electrospray ion source. In blood, linearity was assessed up to 200 ng/ml for vinflunine and 100 ng/ml for 4-O-deacetyl vinflunine. The lower limit of quantification was validated at 250 pg/ml for both compounds. In other biological media, the linearity was assessed within the same range; the limit of quantification was adjusted according to the expected concentration levels of each compound. This method was first developed in order to identify the structures and to elucidate the metabolic pathway of vinflunine. Thanks to its high sensitivity and specificity, the method has enabled the quantification of vinflunine and 4-O-deacetyl vinflunine in blood at trace levels, and has contributed to the knowledge of vinflunine metabolism by monitoring up to 10 metabolites.
21437923	Simple and sensitive HPLC method for the fluorometric determination of methotrexate and its major metabolites in human plasma by post-column photochemical reaction.	A simple and sensitive HPLC method has been developed for the determination of methotrexate (MTX) and its major metabolites, 7-hydroxymethotrexate (7-OH-MTX) and 2,4-diamino-N(10-) methylpteroic acid (DAMPA), in human plasma. After deproteinization of the plasma with 5% aqueous acetonitrile solution containing 5% trichloroacetic acid, MTX, 7-OH-MTX, DAMPA and 2,4-diaminopteroic acid (DAPA) as an internal standard were separated on a reversed-phase column, and the eluent was subsequently irradiated with UV light (245 nm), producing fluorescent photolytic degradation products. The analytes were then detected spectrofluorometrically at 452 nm with excitation at 368nm. The extraction efficiencies of MTX, 7-OH-MTX and DAMPA from plasma at 100 pmol/mL were 81.55.4, 82.55.3 and 56.27.0%, respectively. The limits of quantification for MTX, 7-OH-MTX and DAMPA in plasma were 5 pmol (2.3 ng), 0.8 pmol (0.38 ng) and 10 pmol (3.4 ng)/mL, respectively. The within- and between-day variations for MTX, 7-OH-MTX and DAMPA were reliable (each was lower than 6.3%). This method was also used to monitor the concentrations of MTX and its metabolites in a patient on MTX therapy.
19652384	Potential of lansoprazole as a novel probe for cytochrome P450 3A activity by measuring lansoprazole sulfone in human liver microsomes.	Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A enzymes are responsible for the metabolism of many drugs. It is useful to know CYP3A activity in individual patients undergoing drug therapy so as to predict the efficacies or adverse events. Lansoprazole is metabolized to Lansoprazole sulfone (LS) by CYP3A, while to 5-hydroxylansoprasole by CYP2C19. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether lansoprazole can be used to assess CYP 3A activity in human liver. Lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity in 14 human liver microsomes was determined as the ratio of lansoprazole/LS, measuring these parameters by high-performance liquid chromatography. Testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (T6beta-OH) activity, a known marker for CYP3A activity was also measured together with lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity. Lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity was also analyzed in microsomes preincubat-ed with anti-CYP2C19 antibody. Interindividual variation was observed in lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity and T6beta-OH activities of those microsomes, respectively. Lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity was significantly correlated with T6beta-OH activity and CYP3A protein level. Lansoprazole sulfoxidation activity in microsomes with anti-CYP2C19 antibody was closely correlated with T6beta-OH activity. In contrast, lansoprazole 5-hydroxylation activity was correlated with the CYP2C19 activity. These results suggest that metabolism of lansoprazole to LS by CYP3A occurs independently of metabolism by CYP2C19. LS can be used as a new marker of CYP3A activity.
9187396	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of acrolein as a marker for cyclophosphamide bioactivation in human liver microsomes.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the quantification of acrolein following incubation of cyclophosphamide (CP) with human liver microsomes was developed. Based on the formation of the fluorescent derivative 7-hydroxyquinoline by condensation of acrolein with 3-aminophenol quantitation was performed without prior extraction or other sample cleanup procedures. The method showed sufficient sensitivity with a limit of detection of 5 ng/ml and a limit of quantification of 10 ng/ml. The suitability of the method is shown for enzyme kinetic studies.
20223099	Evaluation of the usefulness of an oxycodone immunoassay in combination with a traditional opiate immunoassay for the screening of opiates in urine.	Oxycodone is a semisynthetic opioid analgesic largely prescribed for post-operative and chronic pain management. The introduction of a slow release formulation of oxycodone has led to its frequent abuse and to an increase in emergency cases related to oxycodone overdose. Until recently, oxycodone testing has been confined to gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis because the widely used automated opiate immunoassays poorly react to this compound. We investigated the utility of a new oxycodone immunoassay as a screening procedure to eliminate inappropriate GC-MS testing of negative urine specimens. We analyzed 96 urine specimens using GC-MS and two immunoassays, CEDIA((R)) opiates and DRI((R)) oxycodone assays from Microgenics, on a Hitachi 917 analyzer. The GC-MS allowed us to detect codeine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, morphine, oxycodone, and oxymorphone following enzymatic hydrolysis and derivation by acetylation. The combination of the two immunoassays gave the best performance (98% sensitivity and specificity) when considering a positive result from GC-MS for any of the opiates. Considering positive GC-MS results for oxycodone or oxymorphone only, the oxycodone immunoassay resulted in two false-positives and one false-negative (50 ng/mL cutoff). Using these immunoassays for screening before GC-MS analysis provides a reduced opiate GC-MS workload without compromising quality.
14670140	Fatal propafenone overdoses: case reports and a review of the literature.	First synthesized in 1970, propafenone is a frequently used 1C antiarrhythmic drug metabolized into two major metabolites, 5-hydroxypropafenone and norpropafenone. Paradoxically, fatal intoxication is rarely described, and only six cases have been reported in the literature. We report our experience with two patients found dead of self-inflicted poisoning where the propafenone blood concentration was very high (one concentration to our knowledge is one of the highest reported in the literature). At autopsy, no evidence of significant pathological disease were found. Propafenone was detected in blood by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and by high-performance liquid chromatography using a diode-array detector, respectively, as propafenone artifact and propafenone. Blood propafenone concentrations were 4180 ng/mL and 9123 ng/mL. The literature regarding propafenone pharmacokinetic and intoxication is reviewed, and we discuss the low death rate attributed to this drug in contrast to its frequent use.
20516255	In vitro metabolism, permeability, and efflux of bazedoxifene in humans.	Bazedoxifene (BZA) acetate, a novel estrogen receptor modulator being developed for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, undergoes extensive metabolism in women after oral administration. In this study, the in vitro metabolism of [(14)C]BZA was determined in human hepatocytes and hepatic and intestinal microsomes, and the UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isozymes involved in the glucuronidation of BZA were identified. In addition, BZA was evaluated for its potential as a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporter in Caco-2 cell monolayers. BZA was metabolized to two monoglucuronides, BZA-4'-glucuronide and BZA-5-glucuronide, in hepatocytes and in liver and intestinal microsomes including jejunum, duodenum, and ileum. Both BZA-4'-glucuronide and BZA-5-glucuronide were major metabolites in the intestinal microsomes, whereas BZA-4'-glucuronide was the predominant metabolite in liver microsomes and hepatocytes. The kinetic parameters of BZA-4'-glucuronide formation were determined in liver, duodenum, and jejunum microsomes and with UGT1A1, 1A8, and 1A10, the most active UGT isoforms involved in the glucuronidation of BZA, whereas those of BZA-5-glucuronide were determined with all the enzyme systems except in liver microsomes and in UGT1A1 because the formation of the BZA-5-glucuronide was too low. K(m) values in liver, duodenum, and jejunum microsomes and UGT1A1, 1A8, and 1A10, were similar and ranged from 5.1 to 33.1 microM for BZA-4'-glucuronide formation and from 2.5 to 11.1 microM for BZA-5-glucuronide formation. V(max) values ranged from 0.8 to 2.9 nmol/(min . mg) protein for BZA-4'-glucuronide and from 0.1 to 1.2 nmol/(min . mg) protein for BZA-5-glucuronide. In Caco-2 cells, BZA appeared to be a P-gp substrate.
22129569	Pharmacokinetic comparison of sustained- and immediate-release oral formulations of cilostazol in healthy Korean subjects: a randomized, open-label, 3-part, sequential, 2-period, crossover, single-dose, food-effect, and multiple-dose study.	A sustained-release (SR) formulation of cilostazol was recently developed in Korea and was expected to yield a lower C(max) and a similar AUC to the immediate-release (IR) formulation. The goal of the present study was to compare the pharmacokinetic profiles of a newly developed SR formulation and an IR formulation of cilostazol after single- and multiple-dose administration and to evaluate the influence of food in healthy Korean subjects. This study was developed as part of a product development project at the request of the Korean regulatory agency. This was a randomized, 3-part, sequential, open-label, 2-period crossover study. Each part consisted of different subjects between the ages of 19 and 55 years. In part 1, each subject received a single dose of SR (200 mg  1 tablet, once daily) and IR (100 mg  2 tablets, BID) formulations of cilostazol orally 7 days apart in a fasted state. In part 2, each subject received a single dose of the SR (200 mg  1 tablet, once daily) formulation of cilostazol 7 days apart in a fasted and a fed state. In part 3, each subject received multiple doses of the 2 formulations for 8 consecutive days 21 days apart. Blood samples were taken for 72 hours after the dose. Cilostazol pharmacokinetics were determined for both the parent drug and its metabolites (OPC-13015 and OPC-13213). Adverse events were evaluated through interviews and physical examinations. Among the 92 enrolled subjects (66 men, 26 women; part 1, n = 26; part 2, n = 26; part 3, n = 40), 87 completed the study. In part 1, all the primary pharmacokinetic parameters satisfied the criterion for assumed bioequivalence both in cilostazol and its metabolites, yielding 90% CI ratios of 0.9624 to 1.2323, 0.8873 to 1.1208, and 0.8919 to 1.1283 for C(max) and 0.8370 to 1.0134, 0.8204 to 0.9807, and 0.8134 to 0.9699 for AUC(0-last) of cilostazol, OPC-13015, and OPC-13213, respectively. In part 2, food intake increased C(max) and AUC significantly (P < 0.0001), yielding geometric mean ratios of 3.2879, 2.9894, and 3.0592 for C(max) and 1.7001, 1.7689, and 1.6976 for AUC(0-last) of cilostazol, OPC-13015, and OPC-13213. In part 3, only the C(ssmax) of clilostazol in the reference formulation did not satisfy the criterion for assumed bioequivalence, yielding 90% CI ratios of 1.2693 to 1.4238 and 1.2038 to 1.3441, respectively. When each dose was normalized, the C(max) for the SR formulation was significantly lower (P < 0.005 for cilostazol). Headache was the most frequently noted adverse effect (part 1, a total of 14 subjects with the IR formulation and 14 with the SR formulation; part 2, a total of 10 without food and 23 with a high-fat meal; part 3, a total of 10 with the IR formulation and 24 with the SR formulation), followed by nausea (part 1, none; part 2, only 1 without food and 3 with a high-fat meal; part 3, a total of 3 with the IR formulation and 3 with the SR formulation), and then dizziness (parts 1 and 2, none; part 3, a total of 4 with the IR formulation and 5 with the SR formulation). All other AEs, including fever, cough, vomiting, palpitation, diarrhea, and epigastric pain, occurred in <3 subjects. These findings suggest that in this select group of healthy Korean volunteers, the SR formulation of cilostazol was not significantly different in AUC compared with that of the IR formulation, although it did display a significantly lower C(max) per dose in both the single- and multiple-dose groups. Food significantly increased the bioavailability of the SR formulation. The cilostazol SR and IR formulations were well tolerated in all parts of the study, with no serious adverse events reported. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01455558.
16339183	Using urinary biomarkers to elucidate dose-related patterns of human benzene metabolism.	Although the toxicity of benzene has been linked to its metabolism, the dose-related production of metabolites is not well understood in humans, particularly at low levels of exposure. We investigated unmetabolized benzene in urine (UBz) and all major urinary metabolites [phenol (PH), E,E-muconic acid (MA), hydroquinone (HQ) and catechol (CA)] as well as the minor metabolite, S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA), in 250 benzene-exposed workers and 139 control workers in Tianjin, China. Median levels of benzene exposure were approximately 1.2 p.p.m. for exposed workers (interquartile range: 0.53-3.34 p.p.m.) and 0.004 p.p.m. for control workers (interquartile range: 0.002-0.007 p.p.m.). (Exposures of control workers to benzene were predicted from levels of benzene in their urine.) Metabolite production was investigated among groups of 30 workers aggregated by their benzene exposures. We found that the urine concentration of each metabolite was consistently elevated when the group's median benzene exposure was at or above the following air concentrations: 0.2 p.p.m. for MA and SPMA, 0.5 p.p.m. for PH and HQ, and 2 p.p.m. for CA. Dose-related production of the four major metabolites and total metabolites (micromol/l/p.p.m. benzene) declined between 2.5 and 26-fold as group median benzene exposures increased between 0.027 and 15.4 p.p.m. Reductions in metabolite production were most pronounced for CA and PH<1 p.p.m., indicating that metabolism favored production of the toxic metabolites, HQ and MA, at low exposures.
15187407	Four new andrographolide metabolites in human urine.	Andrographolide is one of principal components of a famous traditional Chinese herbal medicine Andrographis paniculate (BURM) NEES. Four new metabolites of andrographolide were isolated from human urine. All of them were characterized as sulfate and one of them also as a cysteine S-conjugate. The structures were determined to be andrographolide-3-O-sulfate (M-1), isoandrographolide-3-O-sulfate (M-2), 14-deoxyandrographolide-3-O-sulfate (M-3), 14-deoxy-12-(cysteine-S-yl)-andrographolide-3-O-sulfate (M-4), respectively, based on chemical evidence and spectroscopic analyses.
15108219	Interaction of dexloxiglumide, a cholecystokinin type-1 receptor antagonist, with human cytochromes P450.	Dexloxiglumide (DEX) is a cholecystokinin type-1 receptor antagonist under development for the treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Studies of the potential interaction of DEX with human cytochromes P450 (CYPs) were conducted in vitro. DEX (300 micro M), both with and without a 15-min pre-incubation, was incubated with pooled human liver microsomes and substrates selective for each of eight CYPs. This resulted in >30% inhibition of tolbutamide 4-methyl-hydroxylase (CYP2C9/10) and lauric acid 11-hydroxylase (CYP2E1) activities. Mean K(i) (SD) for CYP2C9/10 and CYP2E1 were 69.0 (24.3) and 426 (60) microM, respectively. Incubations of [(14)C]DEX with pooled human liver microsomes produced one major phase I metabolic fraction, with V(max)=131 pmol/min/mg protein and K(m)=23.7 microM. Further incubations with (i) liver microsomes from 16 individual donors (correlation analysis), (ii) Supersomes trade mark and (iii) selective chemical inhibitors, implicated CYP3A4/5, CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 in the formation of this component. Thus, DEX interacts with CYP2C9 both as inhibitor (K(i)=69.0 microM) and as substrate in vitro. However, based on the maximum concentration (27 microM) after repeated oral doses of 200 mg t.i.d. and the unbound fraction (0.03) of DEX in human plasma, no clinically relevant metabolic interactions with other CYP substrates are predicted.
20822897	Phase I evaluation of seliciclib (R-roscovitine), a novel oral cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, in patients with advanced malignancies.	Phase I study of seliciclib (CYC202, R-roscovitine), an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases 2, 7 and 9, causing cell cycle changes and apoptosis in cancer cells. This phase I trial aimed at defining the toxicity profile, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), the recommended phase II dose (RD) and the main pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters of oral seliciclib. Three schedules were evaluated: seliciclib given twice daily for 5 consecutive days every 3 weeks (schedule A), for 10 consecutive days followed by 2 weeks off (schedule B) and for 3d every 2 weeks (schedule C). Fifty-six patients received a total of 218 cycles of seliciclib. Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLT) consisting of nausea, vomiting, asthenia and hypokalaemia occurred at 1600 mg bid for schedule A and in schedule C, DLT of hypokalaemia and asthenia occurred at 1800 mg bid. The evaluation of longer treatment duration in schedule B was discontinued because of unacceptable toxicity at lower doses. Other adverse events included transient serum creatinine increases and liver dysfunctions. Pharmacokinetic data showed that exposure to seliciclib and its carboxylate metabolite increased with increasing dose. Soluble cytokeratin 18 fragments allowed monitoring of seliciclib-induced cell death in the blood of patients treated with seliciclib at doses above 800 mg/d. One partial response in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma and sustained tumour stabilisations were observed. The MTD and RD for seliciclib are 1250 mg bid for 5d every 3 weeks and 1600 mg bid for 3d every 2 weeks, respectively.
8951158	Stereoselectivity in bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation in liver microsomes from marmosets and Japanese monkeys.	The stereoselectivity in 4-hydroxylation of bunitrolol (BTL), a beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agent, was examined in liver microsomes from monkeys (marmosets and Japanese monkeys) and compared with the results of human liver microsomes. The formation of (+)-4-OH-BTL from (+)-BTL from (+)-BTL was significantly higher than that of (-)-4-OH-BTL from (-)-BTL in the liver microsomal fractions from the two kinds of monkeys. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity from racemic BTL was significantly lower than from enantiomeric BTL, indicating a possible metabolic interaction between BTL enantiomers. The in vitro profiles observed in the monkeys were very similar to those in humans, but the stereoselectivity in BTL metabolism [(+)-BTL > (-)-BTL] in the primates was found to be reverse to that in rats [S. Narimatsu et al., Anal. Biochem., 222, 256-261 (1994)]. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity from BTL enantiomers was significantly suppressed by quinidine and quinine, while the former was more potent than the latter, and also by alpha-naphthoflavone. Furthermore, the activity was also suppressed by antisera against rat cytochromes P450-2D2 and -1A2 in concentration-dependent manners. However, kinetics showed that enantiomeric BTL 4-hydroxylation was monophasic in liver microsomes from marmosets of both genders and from male Japanese monkeys. These results suggest that cytochrome P450-2D and -1A enzymes with similar Km values are involved in BTL 4-hydroxylation in monkey liver microsomes.
8730921	Induction of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes in cultured precision-cut rat and human liver slices.	1. The effect of some xenobiotics on levels of selected cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes determined by Western immunoblotting and associated enzyme activities has been studied in 72-h cultured rat and human precision-cut liver slices. 2. In cultured rat liver slices, 0.5 mM sodium phenobarbitone (PB), 25 microM beta-naphthoflavone (BNF), and 20 micrograms/ml Aroclor 1254 (ARO) induced mixed-function oxidase enzyme activities. Western immunoblotting of liver slice microsomes was performed with antibodies to rat CYP1A2, 2B1/2 and 3A. Compared with 72-h control (dimethyl sulphoxide only treated) rat liver slice microsomes, PB induced CYP2B1/2 and 3A, BNF induced CYP1A2, and ARO induced CYP1A2, 2B1/2, and 3A. 3. The peroxisome proliferators methylclofenapate (MCP), ciprofibrate (CIP) and Wy-14,643 (WY) induced palmitoyl-CoA oxidation in 72-h cultured rat liver slices. Compared with 72-h control rat liver slice microsomes, MCP, CIP, and WY all induced levels of CYP4A. 4. In cultured human liver slices, 20 micrograms/ml ARO, but not 0.5 mM MCP, induced 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity. Neither ARO nor MCP had any effect on homogenate palmitoyl-CoA oxidation and microsomal lauric acid 11- and 12-hydroxylase activities. Compared with 72-h control human liver slice microsomes, ARO induced CYP1A2, and MCP appeared to induce CYP4A. Further studies would be required to confirm that CYP4A isoenzymes could be induced by xenobiotics in human liver slices. 5. These results demonstrate that cultured liver slices may be used in evaluating the effect of xenobiotics on both rat and human CYP isoenzymes.
18757252	Determination of betamethasone and betamethasone 17-monopropionate in human plasma by liquid chromatography-positive/negative electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	This study presents a high-performance liquid chromatography-positive/negative electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometric (LC-ESI(+/-)-MS-MS) method for the determination of betamethasone (BOH) and betamethasone 17-monopropionate (B17P) in human plasma using beclomethasone dipropionate as the internal standard (I.S.). Both compounds were extracted from human plasma with ether-cyclohexane (4:1, v/v) and were separated by HPLC on a Hanbon Lichrospher C(18) column with a mobile phase of methanol-water (85:15, v/v) at a flow rate of 0.7ml/min. Calibration curves were linear over the range of 0.10-50ng/ml for BOH and 0.050-50ng/ml for B17P. The inter-run relative standard deviations were less than 14.4% for BOH and 12.3% for B17P. The intra-run relative standard deviations were less than 9.3% for BOH and 7.9% for B17P. The mean plasma extraction recovery for BOH and B17P were in the ranges of 82.7-85.9% and 83.6-85.3%, respectively. The method was successfully applied to study the pharmacokinetics of a new formulation of betamethasone phosphate/betamethasone dipropionate injection in healthy Chinese volunteers.
23118326	Clinical pharmacokinetics, metabolism, and drug-drug interaction of carfilzomib.	Carfilzomib, an irreversible proteasome inhibitor, has a favorable safety profile and significant antitumor activity in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM). Here we summarize the clinical pharmacokinetics (PK), metabolism, and drug-drug interaction (DDI) profile of carfilzomib. The PK of carfilzomib, infused over 2-10 minutes, was evaluated in patients with solid tumors or MM. Metabolites of carfilzomib were characterized in patient plasma and urine samples. In vitro drug metabolism and DDI studies were conducted in human liver microsomes and hepatocytes. A clinical DDI study was conducted in patients with solid tumors to evaluate the effect of carfilzomib on CYP3A activity. Plasma concentrations of carfilzomib declined rapidly and in a biphasic manner after intravenous administration. The systemic half-life was short and the systemic clearance rate was higher than hepatic blood flow. Carfilzomib was cleared largely extrahepatically via peptidase cleavage and epoxide hydrolysis. Cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism played a minor role, suggesting that coadministration of P450 inhibitors or inducers is unlikely to change its PK profile. Carfilzomib showed direct and time-dependent inhibition of CYP3A in human liver microsome preparations and exposure to carfilzomib resulted in reductions in CYP3A and 1A2 gene expression in cultured human hepatocytes. However, administration of carfilzomib did not affect the PK of midazolam in patients with solid tumors, and there were no safety signals indicative of potential drug interactions. We conclude that the rapid systemic clearance and short half-life of carfilzomib limit clinically significant DDI.
11391126	The effects of different repeated doses of entacapone on the pharmacokinetics of L-Dopa and on the clinical response to L-Dopa in Parkinson's disease.	We performed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover, multiple-dose study on entacapone in 25 patients with Parkinson's disease with levodopa (L-Dopa) treatment-related fluctuations. A run-in period was followed by four 2-week treatment periods during which the patients took 4 to 6 daily doses of L-Dopa concomitantly with 100, 200, or 400 mg of entacapone or with placebo. The effects were assessed at the end of each period; the inhibition of soluble catechol-O-methyltransferase (S-COMT) activity in red blood cells and the plasma concentrations of entacapone, L-Dopa, and 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) were measured and clinical effects assessed on an 18-hour home diary. Twenty-one patients completed the study. Entacapone decreased the COMT activity from predose level: 100 mg by 25%, 200 mg by 33%, and 400 mg by 32% (p < 0.001 vs. placebo for each dose). Correspondingly, the 3-OMD concentrations decreased by 39%, 54%, and 66% with 100-, 200-, and 400-mg doses, respectively. The elimination half-life of L-Dopa was prolonged by 23% (p < 0.05), 26% (p < 0.001), and 48% (p < 0.001), and the area under the curve of L-Dopa increased by 17% (p < 0.05), 27% (p < 0.001), and 37% (p < 0.001) with the increasing doses. Despite a significant decrease in the daily dose of L-Dopa, entacapone decreased the proportion of daily "off" time: 100 mg by 11%, 200 mg by 18%, and 400 mg by 20% compared with placebo. However, this decrease was not statistically significant for any of the doses in this small patient population. The dyskinetic "on" time did not increase with different doses of entacapone. All doses were well tolerated, and no severe adverse events were reported. The study showed that repeated dosing of entacapone inhibits the COMT activity in a dose-dependent manner and thereby reduces the loss of L-Dopa to 3-OMD. Therefore, the area under the curve of L-Dopa is increased and the patient's clinical condition improved.
17457831	Determination of bevantolol enantiomers in human plasma by coupled achiral-chiral high performance-liquid chromatography.	A coupled achiral-chiral high performance liquid chromatographic method was developed and fully validated for the determination of bevantolol enantiomers, (-)-(S)-bevantolol and (+)-(R)-bevantolol, in human plasma. Plasma samples were prepared by solid phase extraction with Sep-Pak Plus C18 cartridges followed by HPLC. Bevantolol enantiomers and (+)-(R)-Propranolol as internal standard (IS) were preseparated from interfering components in plasma on a Phenomenex silica column and bevantolol enantiomers and IS were resolved and determined on a Chiralcel OJ-H chiral stationary phase. The two columns were connected by a switching valve equipped with silica precolumn. The Precolumn was used to concentrate bevantolol in the eluent from the achiral column before back flushing onto chiral phase. A detailed validation of the method was performed accordingly to FDA guidelines. For each enantiomer the assay was linear between 20 and 1600 ng/ml. The quantification limits of both bevantolol enantiomers were 20 ng/ml. The intraday variation was between 1.07 and 12.64% in relation to the measured concentration and the interday variation was 0.91 and 11.79%. The method has been applied to the determination of (-)-(S)- and (+)-(R)-bevantolol in plasma from healthy volunteers dosed with racemic bevantolol hydrochloride.
8835660	Simultaneous assay of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine by negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	A method for the simultaneous measurement of buprenorphine and its N-dealkylated metabolite, norbuprenorphine, in human plasma was developed with negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were extracted from biological fluids by solid-phase extraction. The samples were derivatized with heptafluorobutyric anhydride and measured with negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Buprenorphine formed a heptafluorobutyryl derivative and norbuprenorphine formed a bis-heptafluorobutyryl derivative; consequently, the sensitivity of norbuprenorphine was substantially higher than buprenorphine. The limit of quantitation (LOQ) for buprenorphine was 0.20 ng/mL, and the LOQ for norbuprenorphine was 0.03 ng/mL. Daily calibration curves were prepared. Buprenorphine was linear from 0.15 ng/mL to 20 ng/mL, and norbuprenorphine was linear between 0.016 ng/mL and 5 ng/mL. Between-run and within-run precision for buprenorphine at 0.5 ng/mL were 13.8% and 9.8%, respectively. Between-run and within-run precision for norbuprenorphine at 0.5 ng/mL were 23.1% and 17.9%, respectively. The molecular anion for buprenorphine was used as a precursor ion, whereas the [M-197]- was used as a precursor ion for norbuprenorphine in tandem mass spectrometry. Product ion spectra from collision-induced dissociation resulted principally from dissociations of the heptafluorobutyryl group. Monitoring select precursor to product ion reactions and using qualifier ion ratios increased the method's sensitivity and selectivity. The method was applied to samples collected from a patient who received oral and subcutaneous buprenorphine. Buprenorphine plasma concentrations ranged from less than 0.20 ng/mL to 8.7 ng/mL.
19915083	Experimental exposure to 1,1,1,3,3-pentafluoropropane (HFC-245fa): uptake and disposition in humans.	The aim of this study was to determine the toxicokinetics of inhaled 1,1,1,3,3-pentafluoropropane (HFC-245fa) in humans. Five healthy volunteers of each sex were exposed in random order to 0, 100, or 300 ppm HFC-245fa for 2 h at light exercise (50 W) in an exposure chamber. Capillary blood, urine, and exhaled air were sampled up to 22 h postexposure and analyzed for HFC-245fa. In addition, the metabolites fluoride, 3,3,3-trifluoropropionic acid (TFPA), and trifluoroacetic acid (TFAA) were analyzed in urine. Symptoms of irritation and central nervous system effects were rated in visual analogue scales. Various biochemical (aspartate-amino transferase, alanine-amino transferase, alkaline phosphate, glutamyl transferase, urate, creatine kinase [CK], and CK muscle brain) and inflammatory markers (serum amyloid A protein, fibrinogen, D-dimer, C-reactive protein, and interleukin-6) in plasma were analyzed. The initial increase in blood was fast and an apparent steady state was reached within a few minutes at both exposure levels. The postexposure decrease in blood was equally fast and parallel to that in exhaled air. Only minor amounts of unchanged HFC-245fa were excreted in breath (0.7% of inhaled) and urine (0.001%). The observed time courses in blood and breath agreed reasonably well those obtained by physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling. The PBPK simulations indicate a relative uptake during exposure of 2.1%. TFPA was not detected in urine, and no increase in TFAA or fluoride above background was seen, suggesting little or no metabolism, the calculated minimum detectable metabolism being 0.001% of the inhaled amount. The symptom ratings revealed no HFC-245fa-related effects. None of the biochemical markers was affected. The changes in inflammatory markers, some of which are statistically significant, were not consistent with an inflammatory response.
16473453	Enzyme induction in cryopreserved human hepatocyte cultures.	Freshly isolated human hepatocytes are considered as the gold standard for in vitro testing of drug candidates. Meanwhile also cryopreserved human hepatocyte suspensions are available. However, a drawback of these cells is the incalculability of attachment to the culture dish. Therefore, we established a technique freezing hepatocytes cultured on a collagen gel. After thawing damaged cells were removed to a certain extent by gentle washing with culture medium prior to adding an upper gel layer. The morphology of the resulting hepatocyte cultures could not be distinguished from that of non-frozen cells. However, basal activities of cytochrome P450 isoforms decreased in cryopreserved compared to non-frozen hepatocytes, as evidenced by analysis of testosterone hydroxylation (OHT) in positions 6beta, 16alpha, 2beta and 6alpha. Nevertheless, enzyme induction factors caused by 24 h incubation with 50 microM rifampicin were similar in cryopreserved and non-frozen hepatocytes. In cryopreserved hepatocytes rifampicin caused an increase in mean values of 6beta-OHT formation from 57.2 to 157.7 pmol/well/min (2.8-fold), compared to an increase from 115.8 to 269.1 pmol/well/min (2.3-fold) in non-frozen cells. Similarly, 16alpha- and 2beta-OHT showed induction factors of 2.4- and 2.3-fold in cryopreserved compared to 1.6- and 2.4-fold in non-frozen hepatocytes, respectively. In conclusion, human hepatocytes cryopreserved on collagen gels show a clear induction of CYP3A4 by rifampicin, although the basal activities are reduced compared to non-frozen cells.
19436061	Influence of tea and coffee on biomonitoring of toluene exposure.	The intake of some benzoic acid-containing foods or drinks such as green tea and coffee is known to increase urinary hippuric acid (HA) concentrations, and, unless this can be accounted for, may result in false-positive findings during the biological monitoring of toluene exposure. To investigate the influence of green tea and coffee ingestion on urinary HA concentrations. Time-weighted average exposures to toluene were monitored by measuring urinary HA in 245 car painters in 2005 and again in 2006. Samples of both urine and blood were collected during work hours. All the participants were also asked about their alcohol intake, smoking and dietary and beverage habits, especially green tea and coffee. To clarify the relationship between green tea and coffee ingestion, workers were prohibited from consuming green tea and coffee for 1 day before the health check-up in 2006. The frequency of positive urinary HA concentrations (>1.0 g/l) in heavy consumers of green tea and/or coffee was significantly higher than that of the non-consumer or light consumers (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.15-4.74). Prohibiting green tea and coffee ingestion was effective in decreasing the frequency of falsely elevated urinary HA concentrations (P < 0.01). The consumption of green tea and/or coffee can result in an overestimation of urinary HA concentrations and cause false-positive results during the biological monitoring of workers exposed to low doses of toluene.
12451290	Evidence of polymorphic CYP2C19 involvement in the human metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam.	The authors report preliminary findings on the potential contribution of CYP2C19 isoenzyme to the human metabolism of N-desmethylclobazam (N-CLB), the main active metabolite of clobazam (CLB), a benzodiazepine frequently used as add-on therapy in patients with refractory epilepsy. Two children on CLB treatment showing extremely high plasma concentration/dose ratio (C/D) of N-CLB and metabolite/parent drug ratio (N-CLB/CLB), suggestive of a putative poor metabolizer (PM) phenotype, were tested for CYP2C19 polymorphisms. Eleven epileptic patients on stable CLB therapy were included for reference values of CLB and N-CLB metabolic variables and tested for possible CYP2C19 polymorphisms. Detection of the CYP2C19*2, CYP2C19*3, and CYP2C19*4 mutations was performed in the genomic DNA by PCR amplification and enzyme digestion procedures. In the two presumed CYP2C19 PM patients, the N-CLB/CLB ratio was 10- to 27-fold higher than matched median values of the control epileptic patients. According to CYP2C19 genotyping, one patient was homozygous for CYP2C19*2, while the second presented only one copy of the same mutation, a genotype also found in three control patients. These observations provide further indirect in vivo evidence of CYP2C19 isoenzyme involvement in the metabolism of the CLB main metabolite. According to genotyping, subjects carrying one or two copies of the defective CYP2C19*2 allele might develop markedly elevated steady-state plasma concentrations of N-CLB and be at higher risk of adverse effects.
16891251	Metabolism of the recently encountered designer drug, methylone, in humans and rats.	The urinary metabolites of methylone in humans and rats were investigated by analysing urine specimens from its abuser and after administrating to rats with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC-ESI MS), using authentic standards. The time-course excretion profiles of methylone and its three metabolites in rats were further investigated after a single intraperitoneal dosing of 5 mg kg-1 methylone hydrochloride. Two major metabolic pathways were revealed for both humans and rats as follows: (1) side-chain degradation by N-demethylation to the corresponding primary amine methylenedioxycathinone (MDC), partly conjugated; and (2) demethylenation followed by O-methylation of either a 3- or 4-OH group on the benzene ring to produce 4-hydroxy-3-methoxymethcathinone (HMMC) or 3-hydroxy-4-methoxymethcathinone (3-OH-4-MeO-MC), respectively, mostly conjugated. Of these metabolites, HMMC was the most abundant in humans and rats. The cumulative amount of urinary HMMC excreted within the first 48 h in rats was approximately 26% of the dose, and the amount of the parent methylone was not more than 3%. These results demonstrate that the analysis of HMMC will be indispensable for proof of the use of methylone in forensic urinalysis.
2333716	Human biliary metabolites of isotretinoin: identification, quantification, synthesis, and biological activity.	1. The metabolites of isotretinoin (13-cis-retinoic acid, Accutane) were investigated in the bile of two patients with biliary T-tube drainage after administration of a single, oral, 80-mg dose of 14C-isotretinoin. Radioactivity measurements showed that the two patients excreted 22.7 and 17.1% of the dose in their bile in 4 days. 2. The two major drug-related components in the bile were identified as the glucuronide conjugates of 4-oxo-isotretinoin and 16-hydroxy-isotretinoin. Two minor components were identified as the glucuronide conjugates of isotretinoin and 18-hydroxy-isotretinoin. 3. H.p.l.c. analyses of Glusulase-treated bile samples indicated that the glucuronides of isotretinoin and the two major metabolites accounted for about 48% and 44% of the total radioactivity in the bile of the two patients. 4. Racemic 16-hydroxy-isotretinoin was synthesized and evaluated for its effect on human sebocytes in vitro. This metabolite and the other major metabolites of isotretinoin were less active than isotretinoin in inhibiting the proliferation of the sebocytes.
23212610	A population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of a peripheral -opioid receptor agonist CR665 and oxycodone.	Peripherally acting opioids, particularly peripheral -opioid agonists, may be effective for treating visceral pain by activating receptors expressed on afferent nerves within the gut. The objective of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile of a novel peripherally selective -opioid agonist, CR665 (JNJ-38488502), and compare it to that of oxycodone, a non-selective brain-penetrant opioid. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, three-way crossover study, healthy male volunteers were administered CR665 (0.36 mg/kg, intravenous), oxycodone (15 mg, oral) or placebo (intravenous and oral), followed by assessment of visceral pain tolerance thresholds (VPTT) measured as volume of water (mL) in the bag placed on an oesophageal probe. Plasma drug concentration data were used to generate pharmacokinetic models, which were then used to fit the VPTT data using NONMEM() VI to generate population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models. CR665 kinetics were optimally fitted with a two-compartment model, while oxycodone kinetics were best described by a one-compartment model with transit compartment absorption feeding directly into the central compartment. For both drugs, the plasma concentration effects on VPTT were best fit by a direct linear model, i.e. without the concentration-analgesia delay characteristic of brain-penetrant opioids. The slope of oxycodone (0.089 mL per ng/mL) was steeper than that of CR665 (0.0035 mL per ng/mL) for the plasma drug concentration acting on the VPTT. The results are consistent with the peripheral selectivity of CR665, as well as the possibility that peripheral actions of oxycodone contribute to its visceral analgesic efficacy.
16376051	Simultaneous determination of erythromycin ethylsuccinate and its metabolite erythromycin in human plasma using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry for clinical study.	A sensitive and selective liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS) method was developed for simultaneous identification and quantification of erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin in human plasma, which can be well applied to clinical study. The method was based on liquid-liquid extraction, followed by a LC procedure with an ODS C18 column, and mixture of acetonitrile and 1.67 mmol/l acetic acid as mobile phase. MS detection was performed using a single quadrupole mass spectrometer in positive selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The method was validated to be linear, precise and accurate. The lower limit of quantification of erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin were both 0.5 ng/ml. The proposed method enables the unambiguous identification and quantification of erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin for clinical drug monitoring.
16129554	Modulatory effects of quercetin on proliferation and differentiation of the human colorectal cell line Caco-2.	The effect of the dietary flavonoid quercetin was investigated on proliferation and differentiation of the human colon cancer cell line Caco-2. Confluent Caco-2 monolayers exposed to quercetin showed a biphasic effect on cell proliferation and a decrease in cell differentiation (0.001<P<0.05). During differentiation Caco-2 cells formed 5 phase II metabolites, of which the amount of 4'-O-methyl-quercetin-3'-O-glucuronide correlated with the differentiation grade (r=0.99, P<0.003). The increment of cell proliferation at low quercetin concentrations and the decrease in cell differentiation are effects opposite to what would be expected for a functional food ingredient with anti-carcinogenic potential.
20100551	Occupational exposure to low levels of benzene: Biomarkers of exposure and nucleic acid oxidation and their modulation by polymorphic xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes.	This study investigated nucleic acid oxidation associated with exposure to benzene at low levels in 239 workers recruited among traffic policemen, taxi drivers and gasoline pump attendants of the city of Parma (Italy). Biomarkers of exposure, namely urinary t,t-muconic acid (t,t-MA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA), urinary cotinine, and urinary biomarkers of nucleic acid oxidation, namely 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodGuo), 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanosine (8-oxoGuo) and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-oxoGua) were determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Relevant polymorphisms of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1), glutathione S-transferases M1-1 (GSTM1), T1-1 (GSTT1), and A1 (GSTA1) were characterized by polymerase chain reaction-based methods in a subgroup of subjects. Biomarkers of nucleic acid oxidation were correlated with each other (r> or =0.32, p<0.0001) and with exposure biomarkers (r> or =0.28, p<0.0001). Multiple linear regression models including age, sex and smoking habits as independent variables demonstrated that benzene exposure is associated with oxidation damage to nucleic acid, particularly to RNA (p<0.0001) and is modulated by the NQO1 polymorphism. The study confirmed a significant modulating effect of GSTM1 (p=0.010), GSTT1 (p=0.023) and GSTA1 (p=0.048) polymorphisms on S-PMA excretion, with a significant interaction between GSTM1 and both GSTT1 and GSTA1 (p=0.006 and p=0.037, respectively).
15384147	Identification of some new clemastine metabolites in dog, horse, and human urine with liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	The metabolism of clemastine was studied in dogs, horses, and humans after a single dose of Tavegyl. The urine collected was extracted by solid-phase extraction or hydrolyzed with beta-glucuronidase and then extracted by liquid-liquid extraction, prior to analysis for unchanged drug and phase I and II metabolites by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. The metabolites were identified by their molecular mass and interpretation of the product ion spectra, since no standard substances were available. Unchanged drug was recovered in urine samples from dogs and humans, but not from horses. In dogs and humans, the phase I metabolite, norclemastine, was identified, and clemastine metabolites with one and two additional oxygens were found in all three species. In horses and dogs monohydroxylation on one of the aromatic rings or the adjacent methyl group was favored while, in humans, the additional oxygen was positioned on either the aromatic or the aliphatic part of the structure, and the aliphatic reaction seemed to result in at least three isomers. In the metabolites with two additional oxygens, both the oxygens were found on the aliphatic fragment in humans and dogs, whereas they were situated on the aromatic part of the structure in horses. In human patients, glucuronidated monohydroxyclemastine was recovered, and in urine from horses both mono- and dihydroxyclemastine glucuronides were identified, while phase II metabolites could not be recovered from the dog urine. Clemastine metabolism in dogs and horses has, to our knowledge, not been studied before, and new metabolites from humans are presented in this article. Thus, the metabolites described in the present work have not been previously reported in the literature.
9288583	Electrospray analysis of biological samples for trace amounts of trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, and monochloroacetic acid.	Trichloroethylene (TCE) has been identified as a widespread groundwater contaminant. Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and dichloroacetic acid (DCA) are toxicologically relevant metabolites of TCE that produce tumors in B6C3F1 mice. A sensitive method for measuring these metabolites in plasma has been developed to obtain pharmacokinetic data from TCE exposure. This is particularly important because DCA is more potent at producing hepatoproliferative lesions than TCA. At present, it is unclear whether DCA is produced by humans. Existing gas chromatographic methods cannot detect DCA at low nanogram-per-milliliter levels. A Finnigan TSQ 700 mass spectrometer (MS) with electrospray ionization was used to measure TCA, DCA, and monochloroacetic acid (MCA) in plasma. The MS was operated in negative ion tandem MS mode. The limit of detection for TCA and DCA was 4 ng/ml, and the limit of detection for MCA was 25 ng/mL. Plasma samples from human subjects exposed to 100 ppm TCE for 4 h contained TCA at concentrations as high as 10 micrograms/mL. DCA concentrations were less than 5 ng/mL, and MCA was not detected (less than 25 ng/mL).
21148049	Influence of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 polymorphisms on warfarin and acenocoumarol in a sample of Lebanese people.	The authors assessed the impact of CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3, and/or VKORC1-1639G>A/1173C>T single-nucleotide polymorphisms on oral anticoagulants in a Lebanese population. This study recruited 231 Lebanese participants on long-term warfarin or acenocoumarol maintenance therapy with an international normalized ratio (INR) monitored at the American University of Beirut Medical Center. CYP2C9 and VKORC1 variant alleles were screened by real-time PCR. Plasma R- and S-warfarin and R- and S-acenocoumarol levels were assayed using high-performance liquid chromatography. The variant allele frequencies of CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3, and VKORC1 -1639G>A/1173C>T were 15.4%, 7.8%, and 52.4%, respectively. Fifty-five participants were excluded from analysis because of nontherapeutic INR values at recruitment, leaving 43 participants taking warfarin and 133 taking acenocoumarol. There was a significant decrease in the weekly maintenance dose of both drugs with CYP2C9 and VKORC1 variants when compared with wild-type patients. CYP2C9*2 had the least impact on the response to both drugs. The concentrations of R- and S-warfarin in plasma were significantly correlated with CYP2C9 genotypes. For acenocoumarol, time to reach target INR was more prolonged in patients carrying any CYP2C9 variant allele but failed to reach statistical significance because of low numbers of patients. There was no association between allelic variants and bleeding events. This is the first pharmacogenetic study of oral anticoagulants in Arabs. The authors showed that both CYP2C9 and VKORC1 polymorphisms are common in Lebanon and influence warfarin and acenocoumarol dose requirements, with the CYP2C9*2 polymorphism having less effect on acenocoumarol, the most commonly used oral anticoagulant in Lebanon.
14742135	Comparison of the metabolism of ethylene glycol and glycolic acid in vitro by precision-cut tissue slices from female rat, rabbit and human liver.	1. The metabolism of [1,2-(14)C]-ethylene glycol and [1,2-(14)C]-glycolic acid was studied in vitro using precision-cut tissue slices prepared from the livers of female Sprague-Dawley rats, New Zealand white rabbits and humans. The time-course for production of metabolites formed from ethylene glycol at concentrations from 3 to 40 mM was determined to compare quantitatively the differences between species in the rates and amounts of formation of glycolic acid, the presumed developmental toxicant of ethylene glycol. The rates of metabolism of glycolic acid to glyoxylic acid at concentrations from 0.05 to 16 mM by liver tissue from the different species were also determined. The apparent V(max)/K(m) for the metabolic conversions of ethylene glycol to glycolic acid and for glycolic acid to glyoxylic acid in liver tissue from the different species were obtained. 2. There were qualitative differences in the metabolic profiles and quantitative differences in the formation of glycolic acid between the mammalian liver systems. There was an average of 10-fold less glycolic acid produced by liver slices from rabbits compared with rats. With the human liver, the formation of glycolic acid was not detectable using tissue from three of four human donors. A low level of glycolic acid was detected in one liver slice incubation from one of the four subjects, but only at one extended time point; glyoxylate was detected with liver slices from all four humans. 3. Liver slices prepared from female Sprague-Dawley rats, female New Zealand White rabbits and three female human subjects all metabolized glycolic acid to glyoxylic acid. Human liver tissue was the most effective at further metabolizing glycolic acid to glyoxylic acid. The ratios of V(max)/K(m), representing the relative clearance of glycolic acid from liver tissue, were approximately 14:9:1 for human, rat and rabbit liver, respectively. 4. Precision-cut liver slices maintained in dynamic organ culture are good predictors of metabolism by liver tissue in vivo. The results of the present study therefore indicate that levels of glycolic acid, if formed in vivo, following exposures to similar concentrations of ethylene glycol, would be lower in humans than in rabbits and rats.
15863898	Inhibitory effects of nicardipine to cytochrome P450 (CYP) in human liver microsomes.	To anticipate drug-drug interactions by nicardipine in vivo, cytochrome P450 (CYP) forms responsible for the metabolism of nicardipine and inhibition of CYP-dependent drug metabolism by nicardipine were investigated. Microsomes of human B-lymphoblastoid cells expressing each human CYP form were used for the metabolism of nicardipine. Inhibitory effects of nicardipine on drug metabolism were studied using human liver microsomes. CYP2C8, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 were identified as major CYP forms for the metabolism of nicardipine in human liver microsomes. Nicardipine strongly inhibited two-pathways of triazolam hydroxylation both catalyzed by CYP3A4. Comparison of three Ca(2+) antagonists, nicardipine, nifedipine, and diltiazem revealed that only nicardipine showed such a strong inhibitory potency on the typical CYP2D6-catalyzed drug metabolism. Furthermore, nicardipine inhibited other reactions catalyzed by CYP1A, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 with K(i) values ranging from 1.1 to 29.4 microM. In conclusion, nicardipine was a relatively potent inhibitor of human CYP2D6, CYP3A4 and CYP2C (especially for CYP2C8 and CYP2C19) in vitro, suggesting that drug-drug interactions between nicardipine and other drugs metabolized mainly by these CYP forms appear to occur in vivo.
22264564	An HPLC-ESI-MS method for simultaneous determination of fourteen metabolites of promethazine and caffeine and its application to pharmacokinetic study of the combination therapy against motion sickness.	The combination therapy, promethazine and caffeine had been proven effective in treating motion sickness and counteracting some possible side effects of using promethazine alone while the mechanism and interaction remained unclear. Therefore, an HPLC-ESI-MS method for simultaneous determination of both drugs, and their metabolites was developed for purpose of pharmacokinetic study. To determine as many metabolites as possible, the influence of parameters such as column, flow rate and pH value of mobile phase, ionization polarity and fragmentation voltage were optimized. Fourteen target analytes were well separated and all of them could be identified and determined in plasma after administration of promethazine and caffeine. The LODs and LOQs were 0.9-6.0 and 2.50-16.0 ng/ml, respectively; the recoveries of three levels of quality control samples were from 86.7% to 102%; the intra-day and inter-day precisions were less than 3% and 9%, separately; and the RSDs of compound stability were all lower than 10% within 24h after sample preparation. As a pharmacokinetic study of the combination therapy in 30 healthy volunteers, concentration-time curves of the drugs and metabolites were studied. The present method for simultaneous measurement of more than ten metabolites is valuable for the study of mechanism and interaction of the combination therapy.
14757321	Benzylmercapturic acid is superior to hippuric acid and o-cresol as a urinary marker of occupational exposure to toluene.	The present study was initiated to examine whether urinary benzylmercapturic acid (or N-acetyl-S-benzyl cysteine, BMA), a mercapturate metabolite of toluene, increases in relation to the intensity of toluene exposure, and whether this metabolite is a better marker of occupational exposure to toluene than two traditional markers, hippuric acid and o-cresol. Accordingly, end-of-shift urine samples were collected from 122 printers and 30 office clerks (all men) in the second half of a working week. Solvent (toluene) exposure of the day (8 h) was monitored by means of diffusive sampling. Quantitative relation with toluene showed that BMA had a greater correlation coefficient with toluene (r = 0.7) than hippuric acid (r = 0.6) or o-cresol (r = 0.6). The levels in the urine of the non-exposed control subjects were below the detection limit of 0.2 microg/l for BMA, whereas it was at substantial levels for hippuric acid and o-cresol (239 mg/l and 32 microg/l as a geometric mean, respectively). Thus, BMA, hippuric acid and o-cresol could separate the exposed from the non-exposed when toluene was at < 1, 50 and 3 ppm, respectively. Overall, therefore, it appeared reasonable to conclude that BMA is superior to hippuric acid and o-cresol as a marker of occupational exposure to toluene.
2376608	Direct high-performance liquid chromatographic determination of the enantiomers of alfuzosin in plasma on a second-generation alpha 1-acid glycoprotein chiral stationary phase.	A direct liquid chromatographic method was developed for the determination of the enantiomers of alfuzosin in human plasma, without derivatization, on a chiral alpha 1-acid glycoprotein column. The influence of pH, of uncharged organic solvents and of a cationic modifier (tetrabutylammonium) of the mobile phase on retention and enantioselectivity was evaluated. The enantiomers and an internal standard, structurally related to alfuzosin, were extracted from plasma with dichloromethane-diethyl ether from alkaline solution, then separated with a mobile phase of 0.025 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.025 M tetrabutylammonium bromide-acetonitrile (94:6, v/v). The limit of quantification for each isomer was 1 ng/ml. The method has been applied to the determination of the pharmacokinetic profile of alfuzosin enantiomers in healthy volunteers after intravenous administration of the racemate.
22564759	Investigations on the stereoselectivity of the phase II metabolism of the 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA) metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyethylamphetamine (DHEA) and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyethylamphetamine (HMEA).	Different elimination was reported for the two enantiomers of the designer drug 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA) in vivo. In the present work, the enantioselectivity of glucuronidation and sulfation of the MDEA phase I metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyethylamphetamine (DHEA) and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyethylamphetamine (HMEA) was investigated. First, glucuronide standards were synthesized using rat liver microsomes. Incubations were performed with recombinant human UDP-glucuronyltransferases (UGT) and pooled human liver microsomes (pHLM) for glucuronidation and using recombinant human sulfotransferases (SULT) and pooled human liver cytosol (pHLC) for sulfation. Product formation experiments were performed by quantification of the phase II metabolites using liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry. Additionally, substrate depletion experiments were conducted by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after chiral derivatization for sulfation. UGT2B7, 2B15, and 2B17 were involved in glucuronidation of HMEA and SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 and SULT1A3 and SULT1E1 in the sulfation of DHEA and HMEA, respectively. SULTs provided much higher affinity, whereas UGTs showed higher capacities. Marked stereoselectivity could be observed for UGT2B15, UGT2B17, and pHLM toward S-HMEA, for SULT1A3 and pHLC toward S-DHEA and for SULT1A3 and pHLC toward R-HMEA. In conclusion, the phase II metabolism might also contribute to the observed different pharmacokinetic properties of MDEA.
21377309	Rapid quantification of quinine and its major metabolite (3S)-3-hydroxyquinine in diluted urine by UPLC-MS/MS.	A rapid UPLC-MS/MS quantitative assay for the quantification of quinine and (3S)-3-hydroxyquinine requiring minimal sample pre-treatment - dilute-and-shoot type approach - has been developed. The assay was run at 0.6mL/min using gradient elution with (pH 10; 10mM) ammonium bicarbonate and methanol with a total cycle time of 2.5min on a 50mm2.1mm ID, 1.7m Acquity BEH column. Peak shapes were highly symmetrical allowing for accurate peak integration. Calibration curves for both analytes were constructed from 1.00 to 20.00ng/mL, yielding R(2) values >0.995. Intra- and inter-batch assay precision and accuracy were evaluated using 6 injections of QC solutions on 3 separate days (n=18) and were found to be within 10% and 90-110% respectively. The method was shown to be suitable for quantitatively determining the ratio of quinine to (3S)-3-hydroxyquinine for a cohort of samples from an epidemiological study.
16760132	Exhaled breath condensate as matrix for toluene detection: a preliminary study.	The study was designed to investigate whether exhaled breath condensate, obtained by cooling exhaled air in spontaneous breathing, could be a suitable matrix for toluene quantitative analyses. Nine healthy subjects were exposed for a short period (20 min) to a known concentration of toluene. Exhaled breath condensate samples were collected before and at the end of the exposure, while the environmental concentration of toluene was continuously monitored. Toluene was analysed by head-space gas-chromatography mass spectrometry, and assay repeatability was also estimated in vitro. Baseline and post-exposure measurement of hippuric acid, the urinary toluene metabolite, was performed to assess current toluene exposure. Before the exposure toluene concentrations in the exhaled breath condensate were lower than the detectable limit in all subjects, while after the exposure toluene was detectable with a median value 0.35 microg l-1 (range 0.15-0.55 microg l-1) in all the exhaled breath condensate samples. As compared with the standard calibration in distilled water, the curves obtained by exhaled breath condensate were linear and comparable with the range examined in vivo for toluene. A significant correlation was found between the environmental toluene levels and toluene in the exhaled breath condensate at the end of exposure. Furthermore, a significant relationship between increased exhaled breath condensate toluene levels and urinary hippuric acid after the exposure was found. In conclusion, exhaled breath condensate is a promising matrix for toluene assessment, although its application in humans requires further investigations.
15763594	In vitro aromatic bioactivation of the weak estrogen E(2)alpha and genesis of DNA adducts.	Specific A-ring hydroxylated metabolites of 17beta-estrogens are known to be endogenous pro-carcinogens, more particularly the 4-hydroxylated forms of estrogens produced by cytochrome P4501B1. In this study, we investigated whether estradiol-17alpha, the main hepatic residue of estradiol-17beta in cattle treated for anabolic purposes with estradiol containing implants, could be significantly metabolized by human cells, and whether its aromatic metabolites could induce the formation of DNA adducts as estradiol-17beta and estrone do. First, using a human kidney adenocarcinoma cell line, which expresses specifically the cytochrome P4501B1, we showed that estradiol-17alpha is bioactivated into a mixture of 2- and 4-catechol estrogens leading to the corresponding methoxyestrogens unambiguously identified by LC-APCI-MS/MS. We then demonstrated that the 2- and 4-hydroxylated derivatives of estradiol-17alpha incubated under oxidative conditions with calf thymus DNA gave stable DNA adducts and abasic sites, respectively. From these results, we can consider that human cells expressing CYP1B1-dependent hydroxylation activities metabolize estradiol-17alpha at the same magnitude as estradiol-17beta and estrone, and that in oxidative conditions, the resulting aromatic metabolites can lead to the formation of both stable and unstable DNA adducts.
8200083	Contribution of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 to the activation of heterocyclic amines in monkeys and human.	The activation of heterocyclic amines to mutagenic products by hepatic microsomal fractions from cynomolgus monkey, marmoset monkey and man was compared with the respective levels of cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. The rate of activation of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline (MeIQx), 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) to mutagens by hepatic microsomal fraction from cynomolgus monkey was very low. This was associated with a lack of constitutive expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. In contrast, human hepatic microsomal fraction readily activates these heterocyclic amines and this is associated with constitutive expression of CYP1A2. Treatment of cynomolgus monkey with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes a very modest induction of CYP1A2, and a small increase in the activation of MeIQx and IQ. However, there was marked induction of CYP1A1 which was accompanied by > 10-fold increases in PhIP activation and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), 7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase (MROD) and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities. Following treatment of cynomolgus monkey with 3-methylcholanthrene, induction of CYP1A1, but not CYP1A2, was evident. In untreated marmoset monkey the activations of MeIQx and PhIP, as well as phenacetin O-deethylase, EROD, MROD and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities, are similar to those in man, although the activations of IQ and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity are lower than in man. The presence of constitutive CYP1A2, and the absence of CYP1A1, in the liver of this species correspond to the situation in man. Treatment of marmoset monkey with TCDD results in increased CYP1A2 levels (4-fold), accompanied by proportional increases in the activation of MeIQx and IQ and phenacetin O-deethylase, EROD and MROD activities. The activation of PhIP is increased disproportionately, by 8-fold, most likely due to the activity of CYP1A1 which is also induced by TCDD in this species. Overall, the hepatic metabolism of heterocyclic amines by CYP1A enzymes in the untreated marmoset monkey resembles that in human more closely than that in the cynomolgus monkey. Therefore, marmoset monkey may be a more suitable model than the cynomolgus monkey for carcinogenicity studies involving MeIQx and PhIP, but not IQ.
12376119	Estimating occupational exposure to the pyrethroid termiticide bifenthrin by measuring metabolites in urine.	The control of subterranean termites in Australia is predominantly through the application of chemical barriers in the soil beneath and surrounding buildings. The chemicals used to repel or kill termites are the organophosphorus insecticide, chlorpyrifos, and the synthetic pyrethroid, bifenthrin. These are applied through surface sprays and subfloor injection by licensed pest control operators. To determine the exposure of these personnel to these pesticides it is most usual to measure airborne concentrations or dermal deposition rates. However, to support information obtained from these methods it is often appropriate to determine the amount of the chemicals absorbed, using biological monitoring techniques including measurement of the chemicals or their metabolites in urine. While there are effective techniques for the monitoring of chlorpyrifos exposure by measuring either the alkyl phosphate or trichloropyridinol metabolites, there have been no published reports of suitable methods to measure bifenthrin metabolites in urine. This paper describes an extraction and HPLC-UV method used to simultaneously measure the urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-phenylbenzoic acid (MPA), a metabolite of bifenthrin, and 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (PBA), a metabolite of several other common pyrethroid insecticides, with a detection limit for each of 2.5 ng/ml. The paper also describes the pilot application of this method to a study of South Australian pest control operators handling bifenthrin. MPA ranged from 1.8 to 31.9 microg/g creatinine and PBA from 1.3 to 30.0 microg/g in the urine of pest control workers. MPA was detected in urine of control workers without bifenthrin exposure only at low levels (1.0-1.4 microg/g creatinine), but PBA was found in both at higher levels (1.2-61.1 microg/g creatinine).
9071430	The safety and pharmacokinetics of single-agent and combination therapy with megestrol acetate and dronabinol for the treatment of HIV wasting syndrome. The DATRI 004 Study Group. Division of AIDS Treatment Research Initiative.	This randomized, open-labeled, multicenter study was designed to assess safety and pharmacokinetics of dronabinol (Marinol) tablets and megestrol acetate (Megace) micronized tablets, alone and in combination, for treatment of HIV wasting syndrome. Weight and quality of life data were also collected. Fifty-two patients (mean CD4+ count, 59 cells/microliter) were randomized to one of four treatment arms: dronabinol 2.5 mg twice/day (D); megestrol acetate 750 mg/day (M750); megestrol acetate 750 mg/day+dronabinol 2.5 mg twice/day (M750+D); or megestrol acetate 250 mg/day+dronabinol 2.5 mg twice/day (M250+D). After therapy initiation, 47 patients returned for at least one visit, and 39 completed the planned 12 weeks of study visits. Occurrence of adverse events, drug discontinuation, new AIDS-defining conditions, or CD4+ T lymphocyte changes were not statistically significantly different among arms. Serious adverse events assessed as related to dronabinol included CNS events (e.g., confusion, anxiety, emotional lability, euphoria, hallucinations) and those assessed as related to megestrol acetate included dyspnea, liver enzyme changes, and hyperglycemia. The mean weight change +/- SE over 12 weeks was as follows: D, -2.0 +/- 1.3 kg; M750, +6.5 +/- 1.1 kg; M750+D, +6.0 +/- 1.0 kg; and M250+D, -0.3 +/- 1.0 kg (difference among treatment arms, p = 0.0001). Pharmacokinetic parameters measured after 2 weeks of therapy for M750 were Cmax = 985 ng/ml and AUC = 22,487 ng x hr/ml, and for dronabinol and its active metabolite (HO-THC), respectively, were Cmax = 2.01; 4.61 ng/ml and AUC = 5.3; 23.7 ng x hr/ml. For megestrol acetate, but not dronabinol, there was a positive correlation at week 2 between both Cmax and AUC with each of the following: (1) weight change, (2) breakfast visual analog scale for hunger (VASH) score, and (3) dinner VASH score.
19249251	A single LC-tandem mass spectrometry method for the simultaneous determination of 14 antimalarial drugs and their metabolites in human plasma.	Among the various determinants of treatment response, the achievement of sufficient blood levels is essential for curing malaria. For helping us at improving our current understanding of antimalarial drugs pharmacokinetics, efficacy and toxicity, we have developed a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method (LC-MS/MS) requiring 200mul of plasma for the simultaneous determination of 14 antimalarial drugs and their metabolites which are the components of the current first-line combination treatments for malaria (artemether, artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, amodiaquine, N-desethyl-amodiaquine, lumefantrine, desbutyl-lumefantrine, piperaquine, pyronaridine, mefloquine, chloroquine, quinine, pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine). Plasma is purified by a combination of protein precipitation, evaporation and reconstitution in methanol/ammonium formate 20mM (pH 4.0) 1:1. Reverse-phase chromatographic separation of antimalarial drugs is obtained using a gradient elution of 20mM ammonium formate and acetonitrile both containing 0.5% formic acid, followed by rinsing and re-equilibration to the initial solvent composition up to 21min. Analyte quantification, using matrix-matched calibration samples, is performed by electro-spray ionization-triple quadrupole mass spectrometry by selected reaction monitoring detection in the positive mode. The method was validated according to FDA recommendations, including assessment of extraction yield, matrix effect variability, overall process efficiency, standard addition experiments as well as antimalarials short- and long-term stability in plasma. The reactivity of endoperoxide-containing antimalarials in the presence of hemolysis was tested both in vitro and on malaria patients samples. With this method, signal intensity of artemisinin decreased by about 20% in the presence of 0.2% hemolysed red-blood cells in plasma, whereas its derivatives were essentially not affected. The method is precise (inter-day CV%: 3.1-12.6%) and sensitive (lower limits of quantification 0.15-3.0 and 0.75-5ng/ml for basic/neutral antimalarials and artemisinin derivatives, respectively). This is the first broad-range LC-MS/MS assay covering the currently in-use antimalarials. It is an improvement over previous methods in terms of convenience (a single extraction procedure for 14 major antimalarials and metabolites reducing significantly the analytical time), sensitivity, selectivity and throughput. While its main limitation is investment costs for the equipment, plasma samples can be collected in the field and kept at 4 degrees C for up to 48h before storage at -80 degrees C. It is suited to detecting the presence of drug in subjects for screening purposes and quantifying drug exposure after treatment. It may contribute to filling the current knowledge gaps in the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics relationships of antimalarials and better define the therapeutic dose ranges in different patient populations.
15996837	A case study of acute human chlorpyrifos poisoning: novel aspects on metabolism and toxicokinetics derived from liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of urine samples.	The metabolic fate of the organophosphorothioate-type insecticide chlorpyrifos (CP) in an acutely intoxicated 59 years old female was investigated by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionisation-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) analysis of urine samples. Fifteen metabolites of CP and its bioactivated intermediate chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO), respectively, of which only three have been described in man so far, were identified on the basis of characteristic MS/MS transitions, precursor/product ion and/or neutral loss scans, chlorine isotopomer patterns, and partly by synthesis of reference compounds and subsequent structure confirmation. Three distinct biotransformation routes of CP are proposed: (1) cleavage reactions at the aromatic phosphoester bond, (2) cleavage reactions at the alkyl phosphoester bonds, and (3) glutathione (GSH) dependent nucleophilic substitution of the 6-chlorine at the aromatic moiety. Route (2) has not been reported in humans before and (3) is a hitherto completely unknown scheme of CP metabolism. Urinary markers of the latter were chiefly cysteine S-conjugates of mono-dechlorinated CP, CPO, mono-O-deethyl CP, and mono-O-deethyl CPO as well as the 6-mercapturic acid conjugate of 3,5-dichloro-2-pyridinol. The presence of 3,5-dichloro-6-methylthio-2-pyridinol as well as its O-glucuronide suggests further a cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase mediated degradation. In addition to the qualitative LC-MS/MS screening the renal elimination profiles of the primary products of scheme (1), i.e. diethyl thiophosphate (DETP), diethyl phosphate (DEP), and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP), were monitored over 14 days (n=21). A biphasic first-order excretion mechanism with half-lives of 21.5h (initial fast excretion phase) and 119.5h (terminal phase) for the sum of free DETP and DEP was found. TCP was hardly eliminated in its free form (O-glucuronide identified as phase II conjugate) and half-lives calculated for the total amount of TCP (acidic hydrolysis of urine samples) were 40.8 and 150.7h. The present study gives a more detailed view on the biotransformation of CP and together with the obtained kinetic data adds novel aspects to the limited knowledge of human metabolism of this xenobiotic, in particular at high dosage.
1934265	Metabolic activation of carcinogenic heterocyclic aromatic amines by human liver and colon.	The metabolic activation of the food-borne rodent carcinogens 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and 2-amino-6-methyldipyrido[1,2-a:3',2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-1) was compared with that of the known human carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP), using human liver microsomes, human and rat liver cytosols, and human colon cytosol. All of these aromatic amines were readily activated by N-hydroxylation with human liver microsomes (2.3-5.3 nmol/min/mg protein), with PhIP and ABP exhibiting the highest rates of cytochrome P450IA2-dependent N-oxidation, followed by MeIQx, IQ and Glu-P-1. In contrast, while ABP and 2-aminofluorene were readily N-acetylated (1.7-2.3 nmol/min/mg protein) by the polymorphic human liver cytosolic N-acetyltransferase, none of the heterocyclic amines were detectable as substrates (less than 0.05 nmol/min/mg protein). Likewise, only low activity was observed (0.11 nmol/min/mg protein) for the N-acetylation of p-aminobenzoic acid, a selective substrate for the human monomorphic liver N-acetyltransferase. The radiolabeled N-hydroxy (N-OH) arylamine metabolites were synthesized and their reactivity with DNA was examined. Each derivative bound covalently with DNA at neutral pH (7.0), with highest levels of binding observed for N-OH-IQ and N-OH-PhIP. Incubation at acidic pH (5.0) resulted in increased levels of DNA binding, suggesting formation of reactive arylnitrenium ion intermediates. These N-OH arylamines were further activated to DNA-bound products by human hepatic O-acetyltransferase. Acetyl coenzyme A (AcCoA)-dependent, cytosol-catalyzed DNA binding was greatest for N-OH-ABP and N-OH-Glu-P-1, followed by N-OH-PhIP, N-OH-MeIQx and N-OH-IQ; and both rapid and slow acetylator phenotypes were apparent. Rat liver cytosol also catalyzed AcCoA-dependent DNA binding of the N-OH arylamines; and substrate specificities were comparable to human liver, except that N-OH-MeIQx and N-OH-PhIP gave relatively higher and lower activities respectively. Human colon cytosols likewise displayed AcCoA-dependent DNA binding activity for the N-OH substrates. Metabolic activity was generally lower than that found with the rapid acetylator liver cytosols; however, substrate specificity was variable and phenotypic differences in colon O-acetyltransferase activity could not be readily discerned. This may be due, at least in part, to the varied contribution of the monomorphic acetyltransferase, which would be expected to participate in the enzymatic acetylation of some of these N-OH arylamines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
11236086	Determination of monobromobimane derivatives of phenylmercapturic and benzylmercapturic acids in urine by high-performance liquid chromatography and fluorimetry.	A method was developed for the determination in human urine of S-phenylmercapturic (PMA) and S-benzylmercapturic (BMA) acids, metabolites respectively of benzene and toluene. PMA and BMA were determined, after alkaline hydrolysis, to give respectively thiophenol and benzylmercaptan, and coupling of the thiol-containing compounds with monobromobimane (MB), by reversed-phase HPLC on a diphenyl-silica bonded cartridge (100 x 4.6 mm I.D., 5 microm particle size) with fluorimetric detection. Wavelengths for excitation and emission were 375 and 480 nm, respectively. The recovery of PMA and BMA from spiked urines was >90% in the 10-500 microg/l range; the quantification limits were respectively 1 and 0.5 microg/l; day-to-day precision at 42 microg/l was C.V. <7%. The suitability of the proposed procedure for the biological monitoring of exposure to low-level airborne concentrations of benzene and toluene, was evaluated by analyzing the urinary excretion of PMA and BMA in subjects exposed to different sources of aromatic hydrocarbons, namely occupationally-unexposed referents (non-smokers, n=15; moderate smokers, n=8; mean number of cigarettes smoked per-day=17 cig/day) and non-smoker workers occupationally exposed to toluene in maintenance operations of rotogravure machines (non-smokers, n=17). Among referents, non-smokers showed values of PMA ranging from <1 to 4.6 microg/l and BMA from 1.0 to 10.4 microg/l; in smokers, PMA values ranging from 1.2 to 6.7 microg/l and BMA from 9.3 to 39.9 microg/l, were observed. In occupationally exposed non-smoker subjects, BMA median excretion value (23.6 microg/l) was higher than in non-smoker referents (3.5 microg/l) (P<0.001) and individual BMA values (y, microg/l) were associated and increased with airborne toluene concentration (x, mg/m3) according to the equation y=6.5+0.65x (r=0.69, P<0.01, n=17). The proposed analytical method appears to be a sensitive and specific tool for biological monitoring of low-level exposure to benzene and toluene mixtures in occupational and environmental toxicology laboratory.
21142269	Effect of inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes 2D6 and 3A4 on the pharmacokinetics of intravenous oxycodone: a randomized, three-phase, crossover, placebo-controlled study.	Oxycodone is a -opioid receptor agonist that is mainly metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Because CYP enzymes can be inhibited by other drugs, the pharmacokinetics of oxycodone are prone to drug interactions. The aim of this study was to determine whether inhibition of CYP2D6 alone by paroxetine or inhibition of both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 by a combination of paroxetine and itraconazole alters the pharmacokinetics of and pharmacological response to intravenous oxycodone. We used a randomized, three-phase, crossover, placebo-controlled study design in 12 healthy subjects. The subjects were given 0.1 mg/kg of intravenous oxycodone after pre-treatments with placebo, paroxetine or a combination of paroxetine and itraconazole for 4 days. Plasma concentrations of oxycodone and its oxidative metabolites were measured over 48 hours, and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters subsequently evaluated. The effect of paroxetine on the plasma concentrations of oxycodone was negligible. The combination of paroxetine and itraconazole prolonged the mean elimination half-life of oxycodone from 3.8 to 6.6 hours (p<0.001), and increased the exposure to oxycodone 2-fold (p<0.001). However, these changes were not reflected in pharmacological response. The results of this study indicate that there are no clinically relevant drug interactions with intravenous oxycodone and inhibitors of CYP2D6. If both oxidative metabolic pathways via CYP3A4 and 2D6 are inhibited the exposure to intravenous oxycodone increases substantially.
8809639	Human plasma concentrations of R, S, and racemic flurbiprofen given as a toothpaste.	Flurbiprofen, an arylpropionic acid (APA) class nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID), is commercially available only as the racemic mixture, although its pharmacologic effect has been credited primarily to the S isomer. In humans, the bioavailability of racemic flurbiprofen absorbed from the oral cavity has been studied measuring the total concentration of S- and R-flurbiprofen, and the pharmacokinetics of S- and R-flurbiprofen have been studied after oral administration of racemic flurbiprofen. In this study, the plasma concentrations of S-flurbiprofen and to some extent R-flurbiprofen were studied after brushing with a toothpaste containing different mixtures of S- and R-flurbiprofen. The toothpaste formulations contained 1% racemic (50:50), eutectic (14:86), 1%, 0.5%, and 0.25% (5:95) R- to S-flurbiprofen. Both S- and R-flurbiprofen were rapidly absorbed, with a time to reach maximum concentration (tmax) of 1.2 to 1.4 hours. Based on the AUC, the amount of S-flurbiprofen absorbed increased proportionally when given as the 0.25% (5:95) preparation to the 0.5% (5:95) mixture but did not increase significantly above the 0.5% (5:95) mixture when given as 1% (5:95) R- to S-flurbiprofen. This suggests that dose-proportional absorption of S-flurbiprofen is not maintained at higher concentrations. The elimination of S-flurbiprofen appears to be variable and prolonged after this mode of administration, as observed from plasma concentrations. Further controlled and more prolonged studies of S- and R-flurbiprofen are needed to confirm these observations.
17709305	In vitro metabolism of BYZX in human liver microsomes and the structural elucidation of metabolite by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry method.	In vitro phase I metabolism of BYZX, a novel central-acting cholinesterase inhibitor for the treatment of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, was studied in human liver microsomes (HLM) and the metabolite formation pathways were investigated by chemical inhibition experiments and correlation analysis. The residual concentration of substrate and the metabolite formed in incubate were determined by HPLC method. The calibration curves of BYZX were linear over the concentration range from 5.07 microM to 200.74 microM. The relative standard deviations of within day and between day were less than 5% (n=5). The limit of detection (LOD) was 0.18 microg/mL (S/N=3) and the limit of quantification (LOQ) was 0.55 microg/mL (R.S.D.=5.2%, n=5). The determination recoveries of BYZX were in the range of 98.2-104.8%. The apparent K(m) of BYZX in HLM was 53.25+/-17.2 microM, the V(max) was 0.94+/-0.77 microM/min/mg protein, and the intrinsic clearance value (Cl(int)) was 0.018+/-0.02 mL/min/mg protein. Ketoconazole and cyclosporin A were the most potent inhibitors on BYZX metabolism in HLM with IC(50) being 0.89 microM and 18.17 microM, respectively. And the inhibition constant (K(i)) of ketoconazole was 0.42 microM. The metabolite of BYZX was N-des-ethyl-BYZX elucidated by LC-MS-MS. The results demonstrated that the developed HPLC method was reliability, simple technique, and was applicable to be used for the researches of in vitro metabolism of BYZX. CYP3A4 was the major isozyme responsible for BYZX metabolism; N-dealkylation was the major metabolic pathway of BYZX. The predominant metabolite of BYZX was N-des-ethyl-BYZX detected in vitro phase I metabolism in HLM.
22275272	Mass balance and metabolism of aclidinium bromide following intravenous administration of [C]-aclidinium bromide in healthy subjects.	Aclidinium bromide is a novel, inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist with low systemic activity developed for the treatment of COPD. It is an ester compound rapidly hydrolysed in plasma into inactive alcohol and acid metabolites. In this Phase I, open-label study, the rates and routes of elimination of radioactivity following intravenous administration of [C]-aclidinium bromide were determined. The metabolites of aclidinium were also characterized and identified in plasma and excreta. Twelve healthy males were randomized (1:1) to receive a single intravenous 400g dose of [phenyl-U-C]- or [glycolyl-U-C]-aclidinium bromide (via 5 min infusion) to label alcohol or acid metabolites of aclidinium, respectively. Safety and tolerability were assessed over a 9-day period. Following intravenous administration, the parent compound was rapidly hydrolysed into its acid and alcohol metabolites. Primary excretion routes for [phenyl-U-C]- and [glycolyl-U-C]-aclidinium were renal (urine: 65% and 54%, respectively; feces: 33% and 20%, respectively), with 1% excreted as unchanged aclidinium. A total of three treatment-emergent adverse events in two subjects were reported and were related to infusion site pain. Overall, aclidinium is rapidly hydrolysed into two main metabolites, which are predominantly excreted in urine. Aclidinium bromide 400 g administered intravenously was safe and well tolerated in healthy subjects.
11468938	A mechanism-based pharmacokinetic model for the cytochrome P450 drug-drug interaction between cyclophosphamide and thioTEPA and the autoinduction of cyclophosphamide.	Cyclophosphamide (CP) is widely used in high-dose chemotherapy regimens in combination with thioTEPA. CP is a prodrug and is activated by cytochrome P450 to 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (HCP) which yields the final cytotoxic metabolite phosphoramide mustard (PM). The metabolism of CP into HCP exhibits autoinduction but is inhibited by thioTEPA. The aim of this study was to develop a population pharmacokinetic model for the bioactivation route of CP incorporating the phenomena of both autoinduction and the drug-drug interaction between CP and thioTEPA. Plasma samples were collected from 34 patients who received high-dose CP, thioTEPA and carboplatin in short infusions during 4 consecutive days. Elimination of CP was described by a noninducible route and an inducible route leading to HCP. The latter route was mediated by a hypothetical amount of enzyme. Autoinduction leads to a zero-order increase in amount of this enzyme during treatment. Inhibition by thioTEPA was modeled as a reversible, competitive, concentration-dependent inhibition. PM pharmacokinetics were described by first-order formation from HCP and first-order elimination. The final models for CP, HCP, and PM provided an adequate fit of the experimental data. The volume of distribution, noninducible and initial inducible clearances of CP were 31.0 L, 1.58 L/hr and 4.76 L/hr, respectively. The enzyme amount increased with a zero-order rate constant of 0.041 amount * hr-1. After each thioTEPA infusion, however, approximately 80% of the enzyme was inhibited. This inhibition was reversible with a half-life of 6.5 hr. The formation and elimination rate constants of PM were 1.58 and 0.338 hr-1, respectively. The developed model enabled the assessment of the complex pharmacokinetics of CP in combination with thio TEPA. This model provided an adequate description of enzyme induction and inhibition and can be used for treatment optimization in this combination.
15736197	Bioconversion of naltrexone and its 3-O-alkyl-ester prodrugs in a human skin equivalent.	The purpose of this study was to compare the percutaneous absorption and bioconversion of naltrexone (NTX), naltrexone-3-O-valerate (VAL), and naltrexone-3-O-(2'-ethylbutyrate) (ETBUT) in a human skin equivalent model (EpiDerm) and in fresh human skin in vitro. NTX diffusion and metabolism to 6-beta-naltrexol (NTXol) were quantitated and compared in the EpiDerm and in excised fresh human skin. VAL and ETBUT diffusion and bioconversion studies were also completed in EpiDerm. Naltrexone bioconverted to levels of 3+/-2% NTXol in the EpiDerm and 1+/-0.5% in fresh human skin. VAL hydrolyzed rapidly in the EpiDerm and mainly (93+/-4%) NTX was found in the receiver compartment, similar to human skin. More intact ETBUT permeated the EpiDerm tissue compared to VAL, and only 15+/-11% NTX was found in the receiver. Significantly higher fluxes of NTX and the prodrugs were observed with the EpiDerm compared to human skin. A similar flux enhancement level was observed for VAL, compared to NTX base, in the EpiDerm and the human skin. Metabolically active human epidermal models like EpiDerm are useful as an alternative experimental system to human skin for prediction of topical/transdermal drug/prodrug bioconversion.
3081292	Co-inheritance of the polymorphic metabolism of encainide and debrisoquin.	O-demethylation of the investigational antiarrhythmic encainide was found to be correlated with the genetically determined hydroxylation of debrisoquin in 20 randomly selected and unrelated subjects and in five members of one family. Extensive metabolizers of debrisoquin had a mean (+/- SD) encainide elimination t1/2 of 1.19 +/- 0.98 hours (range 0.25 to 3.4 hours). Poor metabolizers of debrisoquin (two normal subjects and three family members) had a mean t1/2 of 13.2 +/- 0.73 hours (range 7.8 to 22.4 hours). The elimination rate constant of encainide and the fractional excretion of O-desmethyl encainide in urine were linearly related to the fractional urinary excretion of 4-hydroxy-debrisoquin. Poor metabolizers could be identified after a 50 mg dose of encainide by the fractional excretion of O-desmethyl encainide in urine or the absence of (1) measurable ECG changes or (2) O-desmethyl encainide in plasma. The correlation between excretion of O-desmethyl encainide and 4-hydroxy-debrisoquin suggests that significant numbers of the caucasian population (7% to 9%) are likely to be poor metabolizers of encainide and to have markedly different pharmacokinetics and plasma concentration-response relationships than extensive metabolizers.
17976884	Induction of Nrf2-mediated cellular defenses and alteration of phase I activities as mechanisms of chemoprotective effects of coffee in the liver.	Coffee consumption has been associated with a significant decrease in the risk of developing chronic diseases such as Parkinson disease, diabetes type-2 and several types of cancers (e.g. colon, liver). In the present study, a coffee-dependent induction of enzymes involved in xenobiotic detoxification processes was observed in rat liver and primary hepatocytes. In addition, coffee was found to induce the mRNA and protein expression of enzymes involved in cellular antioxidant defenses. These inductions were correlated with the activation of the Nrf2 transcription factor as shown using an ARE-reporter luciferase assay. The induction of detoxifying enzymes GSTs and AKR is compatible with a protection against both genotoxicity and cytotoxicity of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1). This hypothesis was confirmed in in vitro and ex vivo test systems, where coffee reduced both AFB1-DNA and protein adducts. Interestingly, coffee was also found to inhibit cytochrome CYP1A1/2, indicating that other mechanisms different from a stimulation of detoxification may also play a significant role in the chemoprotective effects of coffee. Further investigations in either human liver cell line and primary hepatocytes indicated that the chemoprotective effects of coffee against AFB1 genotoxicity are likely to be of relevance for humans. These data strongly suggest that coffee may protect against the adverse effects of AFB1. In addition, the coffee-mediated stimulation of the Nrf2-ARE pathway resulting in increased endogenous defense mechanisms against electrophilic but also oxidative insults further support that coffee may be associated with a protection against various types of chemical stresses.
19576276	Fire fighting trainers' exposure to carcinogenic agents in smoke diving simulators.	It is well known that fire fighters are potentially exposed to various carcinogenic agents at a fire scene. An almost unheeded issue, however, is fire fighters' exposure to carcinogenic agents in smoke diving simulators. Biomonitoring (urinary muconic acid, 1-naphthol and 1-pyrenol), dermal (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) and occupational hygiene measurements (cyanides, hydrogen cyanide, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde) were used to determine how the burning material, the type of simulator and protective clothing used affect fire fighting trainers' exposure. The highest excretion of 1-pyrenol (sampled 6h after end of exposure, in average 4.3-9.2nmol/L) and emissions of benzene (1.0-2.5mg/m(3)) and hydrogen cyanide (0.2-0.9mg/m(3)) were measured during the burning of conifer plywood and chipboard, and the lowest when pure pine and spruce wood (1.5nmol/L, 0.6mg/m(3), and 0.05mg/m(3)) was burned. However the safest burning material seemed to be propane (1.0nmol/L, 0.2mg/m(3), and not measured). The type of simulator used affected trainers' exposure very clearly. The highest dermal whole body exposures to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were measured in the fire house simulator (in average 1200ng/cm(2)). Clearly lower exposure levels were measured in container training sessions (760ng/cm(2)), where the average dermal exposure level was 35% lower than in the fire house. The exposure levels (30ng/cm(2)) in the gas simulator in turn, were only 4% of the levels in container training sessions. The amount of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons decreased by 80% on trainers' hands when they used under gloves (in average 8.7ng/cm(2)) compared to those (48.4ng/cm(2)) who did not. There was not difference in protection efficiency against polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons between tested fire suits (Brage and Bristol).
15334623	Identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzyme(s) responsible for the glucuronidation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine.	Desloratadine is a non-sedating antihistamine recently approved for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis. The major metabolite of desloratadine in human plasma and urine is the glucuronide conjugate of 3-hydroxydesloratadine. 3-Hydroxydesloratadine-glucuronide is also the major in vitro metabolite of 3-hydroxydesloratadine formed by incubation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine with human liver microsomes supplemented with uridine 5'-diphosphate-glucuronic acid (UDPGA). The metabolite structure was confirmed by LC-MS and LC-MS/MS. Out of ten recombinant human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A8 and UGT2B15 exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine-glucuronide. Inhibition studies with known inhibitors of UGT (diclofenac, flunitrazepam and bilirubin) confirmed the involvement of UGT1A1, UGT1A3 and UGT2B15 in the formation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine-glucuronide. The results from this study demonstrated that the in vitro formation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine-glucuronide from 3-hydroxydesloratadine was mediated via UGT1A1, UGT1A3 and UGT2B15 in human liver.
14607001	Analysis of buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine, and their glucuronides in urine by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Buprenorphine is used for the treatment of chronic pain and also in treatment of heroin addiction as an alternative to methadone. As the availability of buprenorphine increases, so does the risk for abuse and the pressure on forensic and clinical laboratories to analyze for it. Buprenorphine and its dealkylated metabolite are excreted in urine, almost exclusively as glucuronides. The aim of the present study was to evaluate electrospray liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) for the rapid screening and quantitation of buprenorphine and its metabolites in urine. Three approaches were evaluated: (1) direct injection of diluted urine for measurement of glucuronides, (2) direct injection of diluted urine after enzymatic hydrolysis for the quantitation of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, and (3) quantitation of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine after enzymatic hydrolysis and solid-phase extraction (SPE). One hundred six samples were subjected to procedure 1 and, when positive, further quantitated using procedure 2. Only samples with low analyte concentrations (< 20 microg/L) were subject to SPE. Concentrations of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in patients (N = 16) ranged between 31 and 1080 microg/L and 48-2050 microg/L, respectively. In suspected abusers (N = 33), the ranges were 2.3-796 microg/L and 5.0-2580 microg/L. In four of the authentic samples, both the buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine concentrations were below the 20- micro g/L cutoff. We concluded that LC-MS-MS analysis of the glucuronides provided an adequate screening method, but that the direct method for quantitation sometimes had to be complemented with a concentration by SPE, providing increased sensitivity, thus lowering the cutoff from 20 to 1 microg/L urine.
17869472	Simultaneous quantitative analysis of oxcarbazepine and 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine in human plasma by liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	A fast and sensitive method to quantify oxcarbazepine (OXC) and its active metabolite, 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine (MHD) in human plasma using HPLC-MS/MS has been developed. The method involved liquid-liquid extraction (LLE), with diethyl ether-diclhoromethane (60:40v/v) using deuterade carbamazepine (d10-carbamazepine) as internal standard (IS). The analytes and IS were separated using an isocratic mobile phase (acetonitrile/water (50:50v/v)+20 mM acetic acid) on the analytical column Phenomenex Luna C18 5 microm (150 mm x 4.6 mm) at room temperature. Detection was performed by a Micromass Quatro LC mass spectrometer in the reaction monitoring mode using positive electrospray ionization (ESI+). The MS-MS ion transition monitored were m/z 253>208 for OXC, m/z 255>194 for MHD and m/z 247>204 for IS. Over the range 20-5250 ng/ml for OXC and 40-10,500 ng/ml for MHD, the calibration curves were defined by the following equations: y = 0.00568 + 0.00296x -5.70e - 8x(2) and y = 0.00749 + 0.00178x - 5.70e - 8x(2) for OXC and MHD, respectively. All coefficient of determination (r(2)) were close to unity (0.9986-0.9994). The lower limits of quantification obtained as a result of the LLE procedure was 20 ng/ml for OXC and 40 ng/ml for MHD. The statistical evaluation of the developed method was conducted by examining within-batch and between-batch precision data, which were within the required limits. The suitability of the assay for pharmacokinetics studies was determined by measuring OXC and MHD concentration after administration of a single 10 ml of OXC oral suspension (6%) in plasma human of healthy volunteers.
15523087	Prediction of irinotecan pharmacokinetics by use of cytochrome P450 3A4 phenotyping probes.	Irinotecan is a topoisomerase I inhibitor that has been approved for use as a first- and second-line treatment for colorectal cancer. The response to irinotecan is variable, possibly because of interindividual variation in the expression of the enzymes that metabolize irinotecan, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1). We prospectively explored the relationships between CYP3A phenotype, as assessed by erythromycin metabolism and midazolam clearance, and the metabolism of irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38. Of the 30 white cancer patients, 27 received at least two treatments with irinotecan administered as one 90-minute infusion (dose, 600 mg) with 3 weeks between treatments, and three received only one treatment. Before the first and second treatments, patients underwent an erythromycin breath test and a midazolam clearance test as phenotyping probes for CYP3A4. Erythromycin metabolism was assessed as the area under the curve for the flux of radioactivity in exhaled CO2 within 40 minutes after administration of [N-methyl-14C]erythromycin. Midazolam and irinotecan were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Genomic DNA was isolated from blood and screened for genetic variants in CYP3A4 and UGT1A1. All statistical tests were two-sided. CYP3A4 activity varied sevenfold (range = 0.223%-1.53% of dose) among patients, whereas midazolam clearance varied fourfold (range = 262-1012 mL/min), although intraindividual variation was small. Erythromycin metabolism was not statistically significantly associated with irinotecan clearance (P = .090), whereas midazolam clearance was highly correlated with irinotecan clearance (r = .745, P<.001). In addition, the presence of a UGT1A1 variant with a (TA)7 repeat in the promoter (UGT1A1*28) was associated with increased exposure to SN-38 (435 ng x h/mL, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 339 to 531 ng x h/mL in patients who are homozygous for wild-type UGT1A1; 631 ng x h/mL, 95% CI = 499 to 762 ng . h/mL in heterozygous patients; and 1343 ng x h/mL, 95% CI = 0 to 4181 ng x h/mL in patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28) (P = .006). CYP3A4 phenotype, as assessed by midazolam clearance, is statistically significantly associated with irinotecan pharmacokinetics. Evaluation of midazolam clearance combined with UGT1A1*28 genotyping may assist with optimization of irinotecan chemotherapy.
19006203	Stereoselective analysis of labetalol in human plasma by LC-MS/MS: application to pharmacokinetics.	Labetalol is clinically available as a mixture of two racemates (four stereoisomers). The stereoisomer (R,R) has as main activity the beta1-antagonism and the stereoisomer (S,R) is highly selective for the alpha1 adrenoceptor and is responsible for most of the alpha-blocker activity. In the present investigation, a method for the analysis of labetalol stereoisomers in human plasma was developed and applied to pharmacokinetic studies. Plasma samples (0.5 ml) were extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether at pH 9.5. The four labetalol stereoisomers were analyzed by LC-MS/MS on a Chirobiotic V column using a mobile phase consisting of methanol, acetic acid, and diethylamine, with a recovery of more than 90% for all four. The quantitation limit was 0.5 ng/ml and linearity was observed at 250 ng/ml plasma for each stereoisomer. Studies of precision and accuracy presented coefficients of variation and percentage inaccuracy of less than 15%, indicating that the method is precise and accurate. The method was applied to the study of the kinetic disposition of labetalol over a period of 12 h after oral administration of a single 100 mg dose to a hypertensive pregnant woman. The clinical study revealed stereoselectivity in the pharmacokinetics of labetalol, with a lower plasma proportion for the active stereoisomers (R,R)-labetalol and (S,R)-labetalol. The stereoselectivity observed after oral administration is due to the hepatic metabolism and the first pass effect, with an AUC(R,R)/AUC(S,S) ratio of 0.5.
21080678	Mechanistic studies on a P450-mediated rearrangement of BMS-690514: conversion of a pyrrolotriazine to a hydroxypyridotriazine.	BMS-690514 ((3R,4R)-4-amino-1-((4-((3-methoxyphenyl)amino)pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4] triazin-5-yl)methyl)-3-piperidinol) is an oral oncologic agent being developed for the treatment of patients with advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer and breast cancer. The compound is metabolized via multiple metabolic pathways, including P450-mediated oxidation at one of the carbons of its pyrrolotriazine group. Oxidation at this site results in the formation of two metabolites, M1 and M37. Mass spectrometric and NMR analysis revealed that M1 underwent an unusual structural change, where the pyrrolotriazine moiety rearranged to yield a hydroxypyridotriazine group. In contrast, the structure of the pyrrolotriazine moiety remained intact in M37. In vitro experiments with liver microsomes and deuterated or tritiated BMS-690514 containing the isotopic label on the carbon that underwent oxidation indicated that during the formation of M1, the isotope label was retained at the site of hydroxylation, while the label was lost during the formation of M37. On the basis of these results, a mechanism for the formation of M1 was proposed as follows: BMS-690514 was first oxidized by P450 enzymes either via epoxidation or an iron-oxo addition pathway to form a zwitterionic intermediate. This was followed by opening of the pyrrolotriazine ring to form an aldehyde intermediate, which could be partially trapped with methoxyamine. The aldehyde intermediate then reacted with the secondary amine of the methoxyaniline group in the molecule to form the pyridotriazine moiety of M1. This mechanism is consistent with the observed retention of the isotope label in M1. Metabolite M37 may be formed either via a common zwitterionic intermediate, shared with M1, or through a direct insertion pathway. In in vitro human liver microsome incubations, the abundance of M1 was higher than M37, suggesting that breaking of the carbon-nitrogen bond to generate the aldehyde intermediate, a process similar to N-dealkylation, was a preferred pathway.
16123050	Gefitinib (Iressa) inhibits the CYP3A4-mediated formation of 7-ethyl-10-(4-amino-1-piperidino)carbonyloxycamptothecin but activates that of 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecin from irinotecan.	Gefitinib (Iressa) is an anticancer drug that selectively inhibits tyrosine kinases of epidermal growth factor receptor. Gefitinib might affect CYP3A4-mediated metabolism, since the drug is a substrate of human CYP3A. In this study, we evaluated the effects of gefitinib on drug metabolism catalyzed by human CYP3A4. The effects of gefitinib on the CYP3A4-mediated formation of NPC (7-ethyl-10-(4-amino-1-piperidino)carbonyloxycamptothecin) and that of APC (7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecin) from irinotecan were examined with the use of human liver and small intestinal microsomes. Gefitinib inhibited the formation of NPC in liver and small intestinal microsomes. The apparent intrinsic metabolic clearance (CL(int)) in the presence of 40 microM gefitinib was equivalent to about 26% of control in liver microsomes and 45% of control in small intestinal microsomes. Gefitinib stimulated the formation of APC by CYP3A4. CL(int) in the presence of 20 microM gefitinib with human liver microsomes was about 1.9 times higher than control. In human small intestinal microsomes, APC formation was enhanced by the addition of gefitinib at concentrations 20 microM or higher. CL(int) in the presence of 40 microM gefitinib was 2.8 times higher than control. Thus, we discovered that gefitinib inhibited the formation of NPC but stimulated the formation of APC from irinotecan.
12920162	Isoform selectivity and kinetics of morphine 3- and 6-glucuronidation by human udp-glucuronosyltransferases: evidence for atypical glucuronidation kinetics by UGT2B7.	Morphine elimination involves UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) catalyzed conjugation with glucuronic acid to form morphine 3- and 6-glucuronides (M3G and M6G, respectively). It has been proposed that UGT2B7 is the major enzyme involved in these reactions, but there is evidence to suggest that other isoforms also catalyze morphine glucuronidation in man. Thus, we have characterized the selectivity and kinetics of M3G and M6G formation by recombinant human UGTs. UGT 1A1, 1A3, 1A6, 1A8, 1A9, 1A10, and 2B7 all catalyzed M3G formation, but only UGT2B7 formed M6G. The kinetics of M3G formation by the UGT1A family isoforms was consistent with a single enzyme Michaelis-Menten model, with apparent Km values ranging from 2.6 to 37.4 mM. In contrast, M3G and M6G formation by UGT2B7 exhibited atypical kinetics. The atypical kinetics may be described by a model with high- and low-affinity Km values (0.42 and 8.3 mM for M3G, and 0.97 and 7.4 mM for M6G) from fitting to a biphasic Michaelis-Menten model. However, a multisite model with an interaction between two identical binding sites in a negative cooperative manner provides a more realistic approach to modeling these data. According to this model, the respective binding affinities (Ks) for M3G and M6G were 1.76 and 1.41 mM, respectively. These data suggest that M6G formation may be used as a selective probe for UGT2B7 activity, and morphine glucuronidation by UGT2B7 appears to involve the simultaneous binding of two substrate molecules, highlighting the need for careful analysis of morphine glucuronidation kinetics in vitro.
21927835	Benzodiazepines and alcohol are associated with cases of fatal buprenorphine poisoning.	Although buprenorphine therapy has proved to be successful in opioid maintenance treatments, the drug is also widely abused in many countries by intravenous injection or sniffing ("snorting"). In Finland, buprenorphine is the most important abused opioid causing fatal poisonings. To evaluate the drug and alcohol findings as well as the cause and manner of death in all buprenorphine-related post-mortem cases for the age group 14-44years in Finland from 2000 to 2008. This was a retrospective analysis of data on opioid-associated deaths in the Finnish comprehensive postmortem toxicology database based on medico-legal autopsies, case background information and laboratory analyses. Buprenorphine was found in 29% of all 1,363 opioid-positive cases, and buprenorphine poisoning was the cause of death in 182 cases out of 391 buprenorphine-positive cases (47%). In these fatal poisonings, the blood buprenorphine/norbuprenorphine concentration ratio was significantly higher than in cases with other causes of death. The manner of death in buprenorphine poisonings that were almost exclusively accidental differed significantly from other buprenorphine-related cases, which also involved diseases and suicides. Death was immediate in 10% of fatal buprenorphine poisonings, was delayed, during sleep, in 52%, and followed an unknown course of events in 38%. In immediate poisonings, the median blood buprenorphine concentration (3.0g/l) was significantly higher than that in delayed poisonings (1.2g/l). In most buprenorphine poisonings (92%), no opioids other than buprenorphine were involved, but benzodiazepines and alcohol were found in 82 and 58% of cases, respectively. The median concentrations of opioids and benzodiazepines in buprenorphine poisonings were in the therapeutic range. Only one fatal poisoning was found in which neither alcohol nor drugs other than buprenorphine were found. A fatal buprenorphine poisoning is typically accidental, and the average victim is a 27-year-old male addict. Circumstantial and environmental factors seem to be crucial in determining the outcome of the poisoning.
17402749	Screening and identification of GSH-trapped reactive metabolites using hybrid triple quadruple linear ion trap mass spectrometry.	The present study describes a new analytical approach for the detection and characterization of GSH-trapped reactive metabolites using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) as the survey scan to trigger the acquisition of enhanced product ion (EPI) spectra on a triple quadrupole linear ion mass spectrometer. The MRM scan step was carried out following up to 114 MRM transitions from the protonated molecules of potential GSH adducts to their product ions derived from a neutral loss of 129 or 307 Da. MRM transition protocols were constructed on the basis of common bioactivation reactions predicted to occur in human liver microsomes (HLM). The effectiveness and reliability of the approach were evaluated using acetaminophen, diclofenac, and carbamazepine as model compounds. The total ion chromatograms of the MRM for the HLM incubations with these compounds and GSH clearly displayed a number of GSH adducts, including acetaminophen-GSH adducts and carbamazepine-GSH adducts that were not previously observed in HLM incubations. In addition, clomipramine and mefenamic acid that have the frame structures susceptible to P450-mediated bioactivation were investigated. As a result, the MRM-EPI analysis revealed multiple GSH adducts of clomipramine and mefenamic acid in HLM incubations possibly mediated by epoxide and/or quinone imine intermediates. Compared with the neutral loss (NL) and precursor ion (PI) scanning analysis, the MRM-based approach provided superior sensitivity and selectivity for GSH adducts. It also enabled the sensitive acquisition of EPI spectra with rich fragmentation in the same LC/MS run, which were useful for the rapid structure elucidation of GSH adducts and the elimination of false positives. The MRM-EPI experiment can be employed for high throughput screening of reactive metabolites and should be especially applicable to compounds of the same chemotype. Also, it can be applied in conjunction with the PI or NL scan as a comprehensive method for the analysis of reactive metabolites in a drug discovery setting.
15310241	3-aminobenzanthrone, a human metabolite of the environmental pollutant 3-nitrobenzanthrone, forms DNA adducts after metabolic activation by human and rat liver microsomes: evidence for activation by cytochrome P450 1A1 and P450 1A2.	3-Nitrobenzanthrone (3-NBA) is a suspected human carcinogen found in diesel exhaust and ambient air pollution. The main metabolite of 3-NBA, 3-aminobenzanthrone (3-ABA), was recently detected in the urine of salt mining workers occupationally exposed to diesel emissions. Determining the capability of humans to metabolize 3-ABA and understanding which human enzymes are involved in its activation are important in the assessment of individual susceptibility. We compared the ability of eight human hepatic microsomal samples to catalyze DNA adduct formation by 3-ABA. Using the (32)P-postlabeling method, we found that all hepatic microsomes were competent to activate 3-ABA. DNA adduct patterns with multiple adducts, qualitatively similar to those formed in vivo in rats treated with 3-ABA, were observed. These patterns were also similar to those formed by the nitroaromatic counterpart 3-NBA and which derive from reductive metabolites of 3-NBA bound to purine bases in DNA. The role of specific cytochrome P450s (P450s) in the human hepatic microsomal samples in 3-ABA activation was investigated by correlating the P450-linked catalytic activities in each microsomal sample with the level of DNA adducts formed by the same microsomes. On the basis of this analysis, most of the hepatic microsomal activation of 3-ABA was attributable to P450 1A1 and 1A2 enzyme activity. Inhibition of DNA adduct formation in human liver microsomes by alpha-naphthoflavone and furafylline, inhibitors of P450 1A1 and 1A2, and P450 1A2 alone, respectively, supported this finding. Using recombinant human P450 1A1 and 1A2 expressed in Chinese hamster V79 cells and microsomes of baculovirus-transfected insect cells (Supersomes), we confirmed the participation of these enzymes in the formation of 3-ABA-derived DNA adducts. Moreover, essentially the same DNA adduct pattern found in microsomes was detected in metabolically competent human lymphoblastoid MCL-5 cells expressing P450 1A1 and 1A2. Using rat hepatic microsomes, we showed that both human and rat microsomes lead to the same 3-ABA-derived DNA adducts. Pretreatment of rats with beta-naphthoflavone or Sudan I, inducers of P450 1A1 and 1A2, and P450 1A1 alone, respectively, significantly stimulated the levels of 3-ABA-derived DNA adducts formed by rat liver microsomes. Utilizing purified rat recombinant P450 1A1, the participation of this enzyme in DNA adduct formation by 3-ABA was corroborated. In summary, our results strongly suggest a genotoxic potential of 3-ABA for humans. Moreover, 3-ABA is not only a suitable biomarker of exposure to 3-NBA but may also directly contribute to the high genotoxic potential of 3-NBA.
3730524	Pharmacokinetics, metabolism and renal excretion of sulfatroxazole and its 5-hydroxy- and N4-acetyl-metabolites in man.	Hydroxylation is the predominant pathway of metabolism for sulfatroxazole in the body, accounting for 70 per cent of the dose. Fifteen per cent of the dose is acetylated unimodally and 10 per cent is excreted unchanged. The half-lives of sulfatroxazole and its metabolites 5-hydroxysulfatroxazole and N4-acetylsulfatroxazole are approximately 22 h after administration of sulfatroxazole. N4-acetylsulfatroxazole, taken as parent drug, is eliminated by renal excretion (92 per cent of the dose). The initial elimination half-life of N4-acetylsulfatroxazole is 4.5 h, which later increases to 70 h as the result of the acetylation-deacetylation equilibrium. Probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of the metabolites 5-hydroxy- and N4-acetylsulfatroxazole. Inhibition of the N4-acetyl metabolite favours the deacetylation, which results in an increase of the T 1/2 of sulfatroxazole from 20 to 30 h. The protein binding value of sulfatroxazole is 84 per cent, that of N4-acetylsulfatroxazole is 37 per cent. Sulfatroxazole is excreted renally by passive processes, while the metabolites are excreted by both passive and active processes.
7618355	N(+)-glucuronidation of aliphatic tertiary amines in human: antidepressant versus antipsychotic drugs.	1. Metabolic N(+)-glucuronidation of aliphatic tertiary amine antidepressant or antipsychotic drugs was investigated in man. In each case, urine was collected either from patients and/or from healthy volunteers who were administered the drug orally. 2. Metabolites were separated by hplc and individually collected prior to mass spectrometric analysis in the fast atom bombardment mode. The structure of each metabolite identified as a quaternary ammonium-linked glucuronide metabolite was confirmed by direct comparison of its mass spectrum and chromatographic behaviour with that of an authentic standard synthesized in these laboratories. 3. Of the 10 antipsychotic drugs examined clozapine and loxapine were the only two for which the N(+)-glucuronidation pathway was observed, whereas all four antidepressants gave the respective N(+)-glucuronide metabolite. 4. The N(+)-glucuronide metabolites in 24 h urine samples were quantified by hplc. The mean (n = 3) percentage of the dose excreted as the metabolite was found to be 1.6 and 3.1% in the cases of the antipsychotic agents loxapine and clozapine respectively, whereas for the antidepressants clomipramine, imipramine, trazodone and trimipramine these means varied between 0.1 and 0.8%.
16957915	Determination of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol in human serum by liquid chromatography after fluorescence labeling based on the Suzuki coupling reaction.	A simultaneous method for the determination of haloperidol (HP) and its metabolite, reduced haloperidol (RHP), in human serum was developed by means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. Suzuki coupling reaction with a fluorescent arylboronic acid, 4-(4,5-diphenyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)phenylboronic acid (DPA), was employed to convert HP and RHP into highly fluorescent compounds. HP and RHP were extracted from human serum by liquid-liquid extraction with a mixture of n-hexane and isoamyl alcohol (99:1, v/v) and subsequently labeled by reaction with DPA. Separation of DPA derivatives of HP and RHP was performed on a silica column with a mixture of acetonitrile and H(2)O (90:10, v/v) containing triethylamine and acetic acid as a mobile phase. The proposed method allowed sensitive detection of HP and RHP in human serum with a detection limit (at a signal to noise ratio of 3) of 0.22 and 0.20 ng/mL, respectively. The applicability of the method for therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) was demonstrated by analyzing human serum samples from schizophrenic patients receiving HP.
7945434	Metabolic interactions of methoxsalen and coumarin in humans and mice.	Methoxsalen (8-methoxypsoralen) is a very potent inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) and mouse Cyp2a-5-mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylation in vitro. To determine the effect of methoxsalen on coumarin 7-hydroxylation in humans in vivo, five subjects were given 45 mg of methoxsalen and 5 mg of coumarin. Methoxsalen inhibited in vivo coumarin metabolism by 47 +/- 9.2% (mean +/- SEM). Methoxsalen was metabolized in human liver microsomes at the rate of 50-100 pmol/mg protein/min (approx. 30% of the activity in mouse liver microsomes). Metabolism was not inhibited by the anti-Cyp2a-5 antibody in human liver microsomes. NIH 3T3 cells stably expressing catalytically active CYP2A6 enzyme did not metabolize methoxsalen, indicating that CYP2A6 does not accept methoxsalen as a substrate. In pyrazole-induced mouse liver microsomes, methoxsalen metabolism was inhibited by the anti-Cyp2a-5 antibody. Cyp2a-5 protein expressed in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae was capable of metabolizing methoxsalen, indicating that methoxsalen is a substrate of Cyp2a-5. Although kinetic studies indicated that the inhibition of coumarin 7-hydroxylation by methoxsalen is competitive in human liver microsomes, methoxsalen does not appear to be a substrate for CYP2A6. Methoxsalen and coumarin have the potential of strong metabolic interactions in man.
11393801	Evaluation of benzene exposure in children living in Campania (Italy) by urinary trans,trans-muconic acid assay.	The urinary benzene metabolite trans,trans-muconic acid (MA) was determined in 144 children living in Campania (Italy): 92 from Naples (1,300,000 inhabitants), designated as an urban source, and compared to 52 from Pollica (300 inhabitants), considered a rural, background exposure for benzene. The children participating in the study were tested by an anonymous questionnaire about the possible sources of exposure to benzene. Quantifiable levels of MA were found in 63% of the urine samples analyzed. Setting the value of nondetectable urinary samples at 7 microg/L MA, a value that is one-half of the instrument detection limit of 14 microg/L, the mean urinary concentration levels were 98.7+/-81.0 microg/L and 48.4+/-71.7 microg/L in Naples and Pollica, respectively; adjustment of these values to creatinine clearance resulted in MA levels of 141.2+/-145.4 microg/L in Naples and 109.8+/-133.2 microg/L in Pollica. Passive smoke exposure did not significantly affect urinary MA levels, but proximity of the home to traffic increased urine MA content. Data show that MA can be utilized as a biomarker for exposure; however, a clear-cut association to benzene requires personal monitoring and control of dietary sorbic acid.
23737404	Impact of impaired renal function on the pharmacokinetics of the antiepileptic drug lacosamide.	The antiepileptic drug lacosamide is eliminated predominantly via the kidneys. Therefore, an evaluation of the impact of renal impairment on its pharmacokinetic profile is an important component of its safety assessment. The objective of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide among individuals with renal impairment (mild, moderate, or severe) and among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), including those on hemodialysis. This was an open-label, Phase I trial. The pharmacokinetics of a single oral 100-mg lacosamide dose were evaluated in five groups of participants: healthy controls, patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment, and patients with ESRD (with and without hemodialysis). Forty participants completed the trial, eight in each group. In healthy volunteers, renal clearance accounted for approximately 30 % of total body clearance [geometric mean 0.5897 l/h (coefficient of variation 37.9 %) vs 2.13 l/h (20.8 %)]. With severe renal impairment, renal clearance was approximately 11 % of total body clearance [0.1428 l/h (31.8 %) vs 1.34 l/h (26.9 %)]. Terminal half-life and systemic exposure were increased with renal impairment, while total body clearance, renal clearance, and urinary excretion were decreased. Strong positive correlations between creatinine clearance, renal clearance, and urinary excretion were observed. Among patients with ESRD, approximately 50 % of lacosamide was cleared from systemic circulation by 4-h hemodialysis. In patients with essentially no renal clearance, nonrenal clearance was still present (1.1 l/h). Lacosamide was well tolerated by healthy volunteers and patients. In patients with mild-to-moderate renal impairment, lacosamide dose adjustment is not necessary, because total body clearance decreased by only approximately 20 %. Dose adjustment, however, is required for patients with severe renal impairment. Hemodialysis removes approximately 50 % of lacosamide from plasma; therefore, dose supplementation following hemodialysis should be considered.
11888060	Quantification of terbutaline in urine by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and capillary electrophoresis after oral and inhaled administrations.	The International Olympic Committee and World AntiDoping Agency restricts the use of beta2-agonists and only the inhaled administration of terbutaline, salbutamol, formoterol and salmeterol is permitted for therapeutic reasons. The aim of this study was to develop a test for the quantitation of terbutaline in urine and evaluate different parameters to distinguish between oral and inhaled administration of the drug. Urine samples were collected from asthmatic and non-asthmatic recreational swimmers who had received repeated doses of oral (3x2.5 mg plus 1x5 mg during 24 h) and inhaled (12x0.5 mg in 24 h with half of it being in the last 4 h) racemic terbutaline, and single oral (5 mg) or single inhaled doses (1 mg). Total terbutaline concentrations (free+conjugated) were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results showed that after oral administrations urinary terbutaline concentrations were higher than those detected after inhalation. For confirmation purposes, a chiral capillary electrophoretic procedure was established and validated. A solid-phase extraction with Bond-Elut Certify cartridges was undertaken, separation performed using a 50 mM phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) containing 10 mM of (2-hydroxypropyl)-beta-cyclodextrin as running buffer and diode-array UV detection set at 204 nm. The proposed procedure is rapid, selective and sensitive allowing quantitation of free terbutaline enantiomers in urine. No statistical differences were found between total free terbutaline concentrations [S-(+)+R-(-)] in urine collected after oral and inhaled administrations of the drug. After oral doses enantiomeric [S-(+)]/[R-(-)] ratios lower than those obtained after inhalation were observed probably due to an enantioselective metabolism that take place in the intestine, but differences between both routes of administration were not statistically significant. Although different trends were observed after oral and inhaled doses in total terbutaline, total free terbutaline concentrations and in ratios between its enantiomers, differences observed were not sufficiently significant to establish cut-off values to clearly distinguish between both routes of administration.
14760065	Cyclophosphamide metabolism in children with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	The purpose of our study was to determine whether variation in cyclophosphamide metabolism influences the incidence of recurrence among children receiving chemotherapy for B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of cyclophosphamide were studied during a single course of treatment in 36 children receiving a uniform chemotherapy regimen for B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and were analyzed in terms of disease recurrence and hematological toxicity. At a median follow-up of 43 months (range, 17-98 months), six children had developed recurrent disease, giving an overall disease-free survival of 83%. The median clearance of cyclophosphamide in patients who remain free of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was 3.7 liter/h/m(2) (range, 2.3-5.0 liter/h/m(2)), compared with 2.2 (range, 1.5-2.5 liter/h/m(2)) in those with disease recurrence. Likelihood of recurrence was higher in patients with low clearance (<3.5 liter/h/m(2)) of cyclophosphamide (P < 0.01) and positively related to detection of the inactive metabolites carboxyphosphamide and dechloroethylcyclophosphamide in plasma (P = 0.01). There was no correlation between cyclophosphamide metabolism and hematological toxicity. Inadequate clearance of cyclophosphamide to active metabolites is associated with increased risk of recurrence of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in children. Modified chemotherapy strategies should be considered in patients who exhibit low rates of clearance of the parent drug and/or extensive production of inactive metabolites.
16467136	Pimecrolimus: absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion in healthy volunteers after a single oral dose and supplementary investigations in vitro.	The absorption and disposition of pimecrolimus, a calcineurin inhibitor developed for the treatment of inflammatory skin diseases, was investigated in four healthy volunteers after a single oral dose of 15 mg of [(3)H]pimecrolimus. Supplementary information was obtained from in vitro experiments. Pimecrolimus was rapidly absorbed. After t(max) (1-3 h), its blood concentrations fell quickly to 3% of C(max) at 24 h, followed by a slow terminal elimination phase (average t(1/2) 62 h). Radioactivity in blood decreased more slowly (8% of C(max) at 24 h). The tissue and blood cell distribution of pimecrolimus was high. The metabolism of pimecrolimus in vivo, which could be well reproduced in vitro (human liver microsomes), was highly complex and involved multiple oxidative O-demethylations and hydroxylations. In blood, pimecrolimus was the major radiolabeled component up to 24 h (49% of radioactivity area under the concentration-time curve(0-24) h), accompanied by a large number of minor metabolites. The average fecal excretion of radioactivity between 0 and 240 h amounted to 78% of dose and represented predominantly a complex mixture of metabolites. In urine, 0 to 240 h, only about 2.5% of the dose and no parent drug was excreted. Hence, pimecrolimus was eliminated almost exclusively by oxidative metabolism. The biotransformation of pimecrolimus was largely catalyzed by CYP3A4/5. Metabolite pools generated in vitro showed low activity in a calcineurin-dependent T-cell activation assay. Hence, metabolites do not seem to contribute significantly to the pharmacological activity of pimecrolimus.
15155557	Validated assays for human cytochrome P450 activities.	The measurement of the effect of new chemical entities on human cytochrome P450 marker activities using in vitro experimentation represents an important experimental approach in drug development. In vitro drug interaction data can be used in guiding the design of clinical drug interaction studies, or, when no effect is observed in vitro, the data can be used in place of an in vivo study to claim that no interaction will occur in vivo. To make such a claim, it must be assured that the in vitro experiments are performed with absolute confidence in the methods used and data obtained. To meet this need, 12 semiautomated assays for human P450 marker substrate activities have been developed and validated using approaches described in the GLP (good laboratory practices) as per the code of U.S. Federal Regulations. The assays that were validated are: phenacetin O-deethylase (CYP1A2), coumarin 7-hydroxylase (CYP2A6), bupropion hydroxylase (CYP2B6), amodiaquine N-deethylase (CYP2C8), diclofenac 4'-hydroxylase and tolbutamide methylhydroxylase (CYP2C9), (S)-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylase (CYP2C19), dextromethorphan O-demethylase (CYP2D6), chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylase (CYP2E1), felodipine dehydrogenase, testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylase, and midazolam 1'-hydroxylase (CYP3A4 and CYP3A5). High-pressure liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, using stable isotope-labeled internal standards, has been applied as the analytical method. This analytical approach, through its high sensitivity and selectivity, has permitted the use of very low incubation concentrations of microsomal protein (0.01-0.2 mg/ml). Analytical assay accuracy and precision values were excellent. Enzyme kinetic and inhibition parameters obtained using these methods demonstrated high precision and were within the range of values previously reported in the scientific literature. These methods should prove useful in the routine assessments of the potential for new drug candidates to elicit pharmacokinetic drug interactions via inhibition of cytochrome P450 activities.
23075005	Pharmacokinetics and metabolism of [14C]anagliptin, a novel dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, in humans.	1. The disposition of anagliptin, an orally active, highly selective dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, was investigated after a single oral dose of 100 mg/1.92 MBq [(14)C]anagliptin to six healthy men. Almost all the dose (98.2%) was recovered within 168 h: 73.2% in urine and 25.0% in faeces. 2. Anagliptin was rapidly absorbed, with peak plasma concentrations of unchanged drug attained at a mean time of 1.8-h postdose. Mean fraction of the dose absorbed was >73%. Unchanged drug and a carboxylate metabolite (M1) were the major components in plasma, accounting for 66.0 and 23.4% of total plasma radioactivity area under the curve, respectively. 3. Anagliptin was incompletely metabolized, with about 50% dose eliminated as unchanged drug (46.6% in urine and 4.1% in faeces). Metabolism to M1 accounted for 29.2% of the dose. No other metabolite accounted for >1% dose in excreta or yielded measurable systemic exposure. Terminal half-life of anagliptin and M1 was 4.37 and 9.88 h, respectively. Renal clearance of unbound anagliptin and unbound M1 far exceeded glomerular filtration rate, indicating active renal elimination: that might reflect the fact that anagliptin may be a substrate of OAT1, OAT3, MDR1 and MRP2, and M1 a substrate of OAT3, BCRP, MRP2 and MRP4.
12228186	Inhibitory effects of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) on human cytochrome P450 enzymes in vitro: mechanism of drug interaction between TCAs and phenytoin.	The ability of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) to inhibit phenytoin p-hydroxylation was evaluated in vitro by incubation studies of human liver microsomes and cDNA-expressed cytochrome p450s (p450s). The TCAs tested were amitriptyline, imipramine, nortriptyline, and desipramine. Amitriptyline and imipramine strongly and competitively inhibited phenytoin p-hydroxylation in microsomal incubations (estimated K(i) values of 5.2 and 15.5 micro M, respectively). In contrast, nortriptyline and desipramine produced only weak inhibition. In the incubation study using cDNA-expressed P450s, both CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 catalyzed phenytoin p-hydroxylation, whereas TCAs inhibited only the CYP2C19 pathway. All of the TCAs tested inhibited CYP2D6-catalyzed dextromethorphan-O-demethylation competitively, with estimated K(i) values of 31.0, 28.6, 7.9, and 12.5 micro M, respectively. The tertiary amine TCAs, amitriptyline and imipramine, also inhibited CYP2C19-catalyzed S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation (estimated K(i) of 37.7 and 56.8 micro M, respectively). The secondary amine TCAs, nortriptyline and desipramine, however, showed minimal inhibition of CYP2C19 (estimated IC(50) of 600 and 685 micro M, respectively). None of the TCAs tested produced remarkable inhibition of any other p450 isoforms. These results suggest that TCAs inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 and that the interaction between TCAs and phenytoin involves inhibition of CYP2C19-catalyzed phenytoin p-hydroxylation.
14757170	Benzylamide derivative compound attenuates the ultraviolet B-induced hyperpigmentation in the brownish guinea pig skin.	This study evaluated the effects of synthetic benzylamide compound I (2,6-dimethoxy-N-phenylbenzamide) on the ultraviolet B (UV B)-induced hyperpigmentation of the skin. UV B-induced hyperpigmentation was elicited on brownish guinea pig skin according to the method reported by Hideya et al. [Arch Dermatol Res 290 (1998) 375] with minor modifications. A lightening effect was observed following the topical application of compound I on UV-stimulated hyperpigmentation. The skin returned to its original color after treatment with compound I. Fontana-Masson staining indicated that melanin level in the hyperpigmented area was significantly decreased in the compound I-treated animals. However, the number of melanocytes were not changed in the compound I-treated groups using the S-100 stain, which is an immunohistochemical method. In vitro experiments using the cultured melanoma cells showed a 31.7% inhibition of melanin production by compound I at 100 microM. In addition, this compound had no effect on the tyrosinase enzyme function. However, it exhibited a catalyzing effect on the dopachrome transformation into 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid. Overall, the pigment-lightening effects of the compound I may due to the dopachrome tautomerase stimulation.
2874572	1-(2-Pyrimidinyl)-piperazine as active metabolite of buspirone in man and rat.	Buspirone (BP), a newly developed antianxiety agent, forms 1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine (PmP) during its biotransformation in rats and man. After oral administration of pharmacologically effective doses of BP-hydrochloride to rats (1 and 10 mg/kg), the metabolite appears in significant amounts in body fluids and tissues; it is highly concentrated in the central nervous system, the brain-to-plasma concentration ratios being approximately 5 at the time of the maximum concentrations (Cmax). In man given the anxiolytic dose (20 mg) of BP the metabolite reaches higher plasma Cmax values than its parent drug. Its plasma elimination t1/2 is more than double that for BP. These results, together with the fact that PmP is biochemically and pharmacologically active, suggest that the metabolite may contribute significantly to the central effects of the parent drug.
16918719	Effect of fluvoxamine and erythromycin on the pharmacokinetics of oral lidocaine.	Lidocaine is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and CYP1A2 enzymes, but inhibitors of CYP3A4 have had only a minor effect on its pharmacokinetics. We studied the effect of co-administration of fluvoxamine (CYP1A2 inhibitor) and erythromycin (CYP3A4 inhibitor) on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in a double-blind, randomized, three-way cross-over study. Eight healthy volunteers ingested daily either 100 mg fluvoxamine and placebo, 100 mg fluvoxamine and 1500 mg erythromycin, or their corresponding placebos (control) for five days. On day 6, 1 mg/kg lidocaine was administered orally. Plasma concentrations of lidocaine, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and 3-hydroxylidocaine (3-OH-lidocaine) were measured for 10 hr. During the fluvoxamine phase the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak concentration (Cmax) of oral lidocaine were 305% (P<0.001) and 220% (P<0.05) of the control values. During the combination of fluvoxamine and erythromycin, lidocaine AUC was 360% (P<0.001) and Cmax 250% (P<0.05) of those during placebo. Fluvoxamine alone had no statistically significant effect on the half-life of lidocaine (t1/2), but during the combination phase t1/2 (3.8 hr) was significantly longer than during the placebo phase (2.4 hr; P<0.01). Fluvoxamine alone and in the combination with erythromycin decreased MEGX peak concentrations by approximately 50% (P<0.001) and 30% (P<0.01), respectively. We conclude that inhibition of CYP1A2 by fluvoxamine considerably reduces the presystemic metabolism of oral lidocaine and may increase the risk of lidocaine toxicity if lidocaine is ingested. The concomitant use of both fluvoxamine and a CYP3A4 inhibitor like erythromycin may further increase plasma lidocaine concentrations.
17601487	Hair dye use, meat intake, and tobacco exposure and presence of carcinogen-DNA adducts in exfoliated breast ductal epithelial cells.	Diet and environmental exposures to aromatic and heterocyclic amines, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, are thought to be etiologic factors for breast cancer risk. In this study, we chose to quantify the major DNA adduct derived from one member of each of these classes of carcinogens in epithelial cell DNA isolated from human breast milk. Appreciable adducts were detected for each class, namely 2-amino-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) and benzo[a]pyrene. The effect of several metabolic genotypes on adduct levels were also investigated and higher PhIP and ABP adducts were associated with the rapid NAT2 and/or rapid NAT1 genotypes. The presence of ABP adducts was also significantly associated with the use of hair coloring products (OR=11.2, 95% CI=1.1-109.2) but not tobacco usage. These data indicate that women are exposed to several classes of dietary and environmental carcinogens and that metabolic genotype can be a susceptibility factor.
18778087	Identification of cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of the designer drugs N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-ethoxypropanamine and N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-methoxypropanamine.	The involvement of human hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes (P450s) in the metabolism of the designer drugs N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-ethoxypropanamine (PCEPA) and N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-methoxypropanamine (PCMPA) to the common metabolite N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-hydroxypropanamine (PCHPA) was studied using insect cell microsomes with cDNA-expressed human P450s and human liver microsomes (HLMs). Incubation samples were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Among the tested isoenzymes, P450 2B6, P450 2C19, P450 2D6, and P450 3A4 catalyzed PCEPA O-deethylation, and P450 2B6, P450 2C19, and P450 2D6 catalyzed PCMPA O-demethylation. According to the relative activity factor approach, these enzymes accounted for 22, 3, 30, and 45% of the net clearance for PCEPA and 51, 8, and 40% of the net clearance for PCMPA, respectively. At 1 microM PCEPA, the chemical inhibitors 4-(4-chlorobenzyl)pyridine for P450 2B6 and quinidine for P450 2D6 reduced metabolite formation in pooled HLMs by 37 and 73%, respectively, and at 10 microM PCEPA, they reduced metabolite formation by 57 and 26%, respectively. At 1 microM PCMPA, 4-(4-chlorobenzyl)pyridine and quinidine reduced metabolite formation in pooled HLMs by 25 and 39%, respectively, and at 10 microM PCMPA, they reduced metabolite formation by 62 and 27%, respectively. The experiments with the MAB inhibitory to P450 3A4 and the chemical inhibitor ketoconazole for P450 3A4 showed no inhibitory effect concerning PCEPA O-dealkylation. Experiments with HLMs from P450 2D6 poor metabolizers showed a reduction of metabolite formation as compared to pooled HLM of 73 and 25% (1 microM and 10 microM PCEPA) and 40 and 38% (1 microM and 10 microM PCMPA), respectively. In conclusion, the main metabolic step was catalyzed by different P450s.
1414219	Absence of interaction between oxcarbazepine and erythromycin.	When erythromycin (ERY) is co-administrated with the antiepileptic carbamazepine (CBZ), a drug interaction may cause an increase in CBZ plasma concentrations, which can result in CBZ related toxic symptoms. This cross-over study was designated to investigate whether ERY influences the pharmacokinetics of the new antiepileptic oxcarbazepine (OXC) and its metabolites. In 8 healthy volunteers there were no significant differences in AUC, peak plasma concentrations or time to peak concentration when OXC was administered either with or without ERY. The results of this study suggest that OXC may offer an important advantage over CBZ especially when concomitant therapy with ERY is required.
8199305	Metabolism of the chlorofluorocarbon substitute 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane by rat and human liver microsomes: the role of cytochrome P450 2E1.	1,1-Dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC-123) has been developed as a substitute for ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons. The atmospheric lifetime of HCFC-123 is expected to be much shorter than those of chlorofluorocarbons; however, due to its lower stability and the presence of carbon-hydrogen bonds, metabolism of HCFC-123 in mammals and metabolism-dependent toxicity is likely. We compared the metabolism of HCFC-123 and its analog halothane in rat and human liver microsomes. 19F-NMR studies showed that trifluoroacetic acid is a major metabolite of HCFC-123. Besides trifluoroacetic acid, chlorodifluoroacetic acid and inorganic fluoride were identified as products of the enzymatic oxidation of HCFC-123 in rat and human liver microsomes by 19F-NMR and mass spectrometry. The metabolites were not detected in incubations with halothane. HCFC-123 and halothane were transformed by liver microsomes from untreated rats at low rates. Microsomes from ethanol-and pyridine-treated rats metabolized both HCFC-123 and halothane at much higher rates. These microsomes also exhibited high rates of p-nitrophenol oxidation. p-Nitrophenol is a model substrate mainly oxidized by P450 2E1 to p-nitrocatechol. Samples of human liver microsomes showed considerable differences in the extent of HCFC-123, p-nitrophenol oxidation, and chlorzoxazone hydroxylation. In human liver microsomes, rabbit anti-rat P450 2E1 IgG recognized a single protein band corresponding in apparent molecular weight to human P450 2E1. Immunoblot analysis revealed considerable heterogenity in the P450 2E1 protein content of the human liver samples. Trifluoroacetic acid formation from HCFC-123 and halothane and p-nitrocatechol formation from p-nitrophenol were significantly reduced by the P450 2E1 inhibitor diethyldithiocarbamate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
9017461	Sensitive gas chromatographic method for determination of mercapturic acids in human urine.	A method was developed for sensitive determination of the specific benzene metabolite S-phenylmercapturic acid and the corresponding toluene metabolite S-benzylmercapturic acid in human urine for non-occupational and occupational exposure. The sample preparation procedure consists of liquid extraction of urine samples followed by precolumn derivatization and a clean-up by normal-phase HPLC. Determination of analytes occurs by gas chromatography with electron-capture detection. With this highly sensitive method (detection limits 60 and 65 ng/l, respectively) urinary S-phenylmercapturic and S-benzylmercapturic acid concentrations for non-occupationally exposed persons (e.g. non-smokers) can be measured precisely in one chromatographic run. Validation of the method occurred by comparison with a HPLC method we have published recently.
16381667	Glucuronidation as a major metabolic clearance pathway of 14c-labeled muraglitazar in humans: metabolic profiles in subjects with or without bile collection.	The metabolism and disposition of 14C-labeled muraglitazar (Pargluva), a novel dual alpha/gamma peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activator, was investigated in eight healthy male subjects with and without bile collection (groups 1 and 2) after a single 20-mg oral dose. Bile samples were collected for 3 to 8 h after dosing from group 2 subjects in addition to the urine and feces collection. In plasma, the parent compound was the major component, and circulating metabolites, including several glucuronide conjugates, were minor components at all time points. The exposure to parent drug (Cmax and area under the plasma concentration versus time curve) in subjects with bile collection was generally lower than that in subjects without bile collection. The major portion of the radioactive dose was recovered in feces (91% for group 1 and 51% for group 2). In addition, 40% of the dose was recovered in the bile from group 2 subjects. In this 3- to 8-h bile, the glucuronide of muraglitazar (M13, 15% of dose) and the glucuronides of its oxidative metabolites (M17a,b,c, M18a,b,c, and M20, together, 16% of dose) accounted for approximately 80% of the biliary radioactivity; muraglitazar and its O-demethylated metabolite (M15) each accounted for approximately 4% of the dose. In contrast, fecal samples only contained muraglitazar and its oxidative metabolites, suggesting hydrolysis of biliary glucuronides in the intestine before fecal excretion. Thus, the subjects with and without bile collection showed different metabolic profiles of muraglitazar after oral administration, and glucuronidation was not observed as a major pathway of metabolic clearance from subjects with the conventional urine and fecal collection, but was found as a major elimination pathway from subjects with bile collection.
12383490	Evaluation of human hepatocyte incubation as a new tool for metabolism study of androstenedione and norandrostenedione in a doping control perspective.	Human hepatocyte incubations were used to study the metabolism of precursors of testosterone and nortestosterone and to evaluate qualitatively the correlation between in vitro and published in vivo urinary metabolic profiles. Both phase I and phase II biotransformations were observed in vitro: oxidoreduction at C-3 and C-17, reduction at C-4,5, hydroxylation at C-6 beta and C-16, glucuronidation and sulfation. All major metabolites detected in urine following oral administration of androstenedione and norandrostenedione were present in human hepatocyte incubations. The good correlation between in vitro and in vivo metabolic profiles indicates that hepatocyte incubations can be a useful tool to identify and characterize metabolites that could be potential urinary markers for detection of steroid abuse by athletes.
17662597	Steroid metabolism and profile of steroidogenic gene expression in Episkin: high similarity with human epidermis.	The skin is a well-recognized site of steroid formation and metabolism. Episkin is a cultured human epidermis. In this report, we investigate whether Episkin possesses a steroidogenic machinery able to metabolize adrenal steroid precursors into active steroids. Episkin was incubated with [14C]-dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and 4-androstenedione (4-dione) and their metabolites were analyzed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). The results show that the major product of DHEA metabolism in Episkin is DHEA sulfate (DHEAS) (88% of the metabolites) while the other metabolites are 7alpha-OH-DHEA (8.2%), 4-dione (1.3%), 5-androstenediol (1.3%), dihydrotestosterone (DHT) (1.4%) and androsterone (ADT) (2.3%). When 4-dione is used as substrate, much higher levels of C19-steroids are produced with ADT representing 77% of the metabolites. These data indicate that 5alpha-reductase, 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) and 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehdyrogenase (3alpha-HSD) activities are present at moderate levels in Episkin, while 3beta-HSD activity is low and represents a rate-limiting step in the conversion of DHEA into C19-steroids. Using realtime PCR, we have measured the level of mRNAs encoding the steroidogenic enzymes in Episkin. A good agreement is found between the mRNAs expression in Episkin and the metabolic profile. High expression levels of steroid sulfotransferase SULT2B1B and type 3 3alpha-HSD (AKR1C2) correspond to the high levels of DHEA sulfate (DHEAS) and ADT formed from DHEA and 4-dione, respectively. 3beta-HSD is almost undetectable while the other enzymes such as type 1 5alpha-reductase, types 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 10 17beta-HSD and 20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (20alpha-HSD) (AKR1C1) are highly expressed. Except for UGT-glucuronosyl transferase, similar mRNA expression profiles between Episkin and human epidermis are observed.
17442643	Concurrent determination of ezetimibe and its phase-I and II metabolites by HPLC with UV detection: quantitative application to various in vitro metabolic stability studies and for qualitative estimation in bile.	Simultaneous separation and quantification of ezetimibe (EZM) and its phase-I metabolite i.e., ezetimibe ketone (EZM-K) and phase-II metabolite i.e., ezetimibe glucuronide (EZM-G) in various matrices was accomplished by gradient HPLC with UV detection. The assay procedure involved deproteinization of 500 microL of either incubation or bile sample containing analytes and internal standard (IS, theophylline) with 75 microL acetonitrile containing 25% perchloric acid. An aliquot of 100 microL supernatant was injected onto a C18 column. The chromatographic separation was achieved by gradient elution consisting of 0.05 M formic acid:acetonitrile:methanol:water at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. The detection of analyte peaks were achieved by monitoring the eluate using an UV detector set at 250 nm. Nominal retention times of IS, EZM-G, ezetimibe ketone glucuronide (EZM-KG), EZM and EZM-K were 9.39, 24.23, 27.82, 29.04 and 30.56 min, respectively. Average extraction efficiencies of EZM, EZM-G and IS was >75-80% and for EZM-K was >50% from all the matrices tested. Limit of quantitation (LOQ) for EZM, EZM-K and EZM-G was 0.02 microg/mL. Due to the lack of availability of reference standard of EZM-KG, the recovery and LOQ aspects for this metabolite were not assessed. Overall, the method is suitable for simultaneous measurement of EZM, and its phase-I and phase-II metabolite (EZM-G) in in vitro and in vivo studies.
16105253	GC-MS quantitation of codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone in blood.	A method is described for the simultaneous analysis of seven opiates, codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone, in blood samples by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). One milliliter of blood is combined with an internal standard mixture containing 200 ng of each of the seven deuterated opiates. Two milliliters of acetonitrile is added to precipitate the proteins and cellular material. After centrifugation, the clear supernatant is removed, and the acetonitrile is evaporated. The remaining aqueous portion is adjusted to pH 9 with sodium bicarbonate buffer, and the drugs are extracted into chloroform/ trifluoroethanol (10:1). The organic extractant is transferred and dried under nitrogen. The residue is reconstituted in dilute hydrochloric acid and washed consecutively with hexane and chloroform. The purified aqueous portion is adjusted to pH 9 with bicarbonate buffer, and the drugs are again extracted into chloroform/trifluoroethanol (10:1). The organic portion is removed from the aqueous fraction and dried under nitrogen. The residue is consecutively derivatized with methoxyamine and propionic anhydride using pyridine as a catalyst. The ketone groups on hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone are converted to methoximes. Hydroxyl groups present at the O(3) and O(6) positions of codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydromorphone, and oxymorphone are converted to their respective propionyl esters. After a post-derivatization purification step, the extracts are analyzed by full scan GC-MS using electron impact ionization. The method is linear to at least 2000 ng/mL. Day-to-day precision (N = 15) at 500 ng/mL and 75 ng/mL were less than 10% for all seven targeted opiates. Extraction efficiencies at these two concentrations ranged from 50% to 68%. For each opiate, the limit of quantitation was 10 ng/mL, and the limit of detection was 2 ng/mL.
12139053	Comparison of electrospray, atmospheric pressure chemical ionization, and atmospheric pressure photoionization in the identification of apomorphine, dobutamine, and entacapone phase II metabolites in biological samples.	The applicability of different ionization techniques, electrospray ionization (ESI), atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI), and a novel atmospheric pressure photoionization (APPI), were tested for the identification of the phase II metabolites of apomorphine, dobutamine, and entacapone in rat urine and in vitro incubation mixtures (rat hepatocytes and human liver microsomes). ESI proved to be the most suitable ionization method; it enabled detection of 22 conjugates, whereas APCI and APPI showed only 12 and 14 conjugates, respectively. Methyl conjugates were detected with all ionization methods. Glucuronide conjugates were ionized most efficiently with ESI. Only some of the glucuronides detected with ESI were detected with APCI and APPI. Sulfate conjugates were detected only with ESI. MS/MS experiments showed that the site of glucuronidation or sulfation could not be determined, since the primary cleavage was a loss of the conjugate group (glucuronic acid or SO3), and no site-characteristic product ions were formed. However, it may be possible to determine the site of methylation, since methylated products are more stable than glucuronides or sulfates. Furthermore, the loss of CH3 is not necessarily the primary cleavage, and site characteristic products may be formed. Identification and comparison of conjugates formed from the current model drugs were successfully analyzed in different biological specimens of common interest to biomedical research. A fairly good relation was obtained between the data from in vivo and in vitro models of drug metabolism.
1479543	Evidence of direct conversion of testosterone sulfate to estradiol 17-sulfate by human placental microsomes.	Ring A aromatization of testosterone sulfate (TS), using human term placental microsomes as a enzyme source, was examined under a reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-generating system. The aromatization to estradiol 17-sulfate (ES) without removal of the C-17 conjugate group was confirmed. Judging from the results of various experiments, including an inhibition experiment, the conversion was considered to occur by placental aromatase. Apparent Km and Vmax values for this aromatization were determined to be 37.4 microM and 330 pmol/mg protein/min respectively. The physiological role of direct conversion of TS by placenta to ES is discussed in connection with pregnancy.
19923256	Identification of novel substrates for human cytochrome P450 2J2.	Several antihistamine drugs including terfenadine, ebastine, and astemizole have been identified as substrates for CYP2J2. The overall importance of this enzyme in drug metabolism has not been fully explored. In this study, 139 marketed therapeutic agents and compounds were screened as potential CYP2J2 substrates. Eight novel substrates were identified that vary in size and overall topology from relatively rigid structures (amiodarone) to larger complex structures (cyclosporine). The substrates displayed in vitro intrinsic clearance values ranging from 0.06 to 3.98 mul/min/pmol CYP2J2. Substrates identified for CYP2J2 are also metabolized by CYP3A4. Extracted ion chromatograms of metabolites observed for albendazole, amiodarone, astemizole, thioridazine, mesoridazine, and danazol showed marked differences in the regioselectivity of CYP2J2 and CYP3A4. CYP3A4 commonly metabolized compounds at multiple sites, whereas CYP2J2 metabolism was more restrictive and limited, in general, to a single site for large compounds. Although the CYP2J2 active site can accommodate large substrates, it may be more narrow than CYP3A4, limiting metabolism to moieties that can extend closer toward the active heme iron. For albendazole, CYP2J2 forms a unique metabolite compared with CYP3A4. Albendazole and amiodarone were evaluated in various in vitro systems including recombinant CYP2J2 and CYP3A4, pooled human liver microsomes (HLM), and human intestinal microsomes (HIM). The Michaelis-Menten-derived intrinsic clearance of N-desethyl amiodarone was 4.6 greater in HLM than in HIM and 17-fold greater in recombinant CYP3A4 than in recombinant CYP2J2. The resulting data suggest that CYP2J2 may be an unrecognized participant in first-pass metabolism, but its contribution is minor relative to that of CYP3A4.
15044558	UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B15 pharmacogenetics: UGT2B15 D85Y genotype and gender are major determinants of oxazepam glucuronidation by human liver.	Oxazepam is a commonly used 1,4-benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug that is polymorphically metabolized in humans. However, the molecular basis for this phenomenon is currently unknown. We have previously shown that S-oxazepam glucuronide, the major oxazepam metabolite, is selectively formed by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B15, whereas the minor R-oxazepam glucuronide is produced by multiple UGTs other than UGT2B15. Phenotype-genotype studies were conducted using microsomes and DNA prepared from the same set of 54 human livers. Sequencing of the UGT2B15 gene revealed three nonsynonymous polymorphisms, D85Y, T352I, and K523T, with variant allele frequencies of 0.56, 0.02, and 0.40, respectively. D85Y genotype showed a significant effect (p = 0.012) on S-oxazepam glucuronidation with lower median activities in 85Y/Y livers (49 pmol/min/mg protein) compared with 85D/D livers (131 pmol/min/mg), whereas 85D/Y livers were intermediate in activity (65 pmol/min/mg). There was also a significant trend (p = 0.049) for higher S-oxazepam activities in the two 352T/I livers (135 and 210 pmol/min/mg) compared with the remaining 352T/T livers (median, 64 pmol/min/mg). Conversely, K523T genotype had no apparent effect on oxazepam glucuronidation (p > 0.05). Donor gender also significantly influenced S-oxazepam glucuronidation with higher median activities in male (65 pmol/min/mg) compared with female (39 pmol/min/ mg) livers (p = 0.042). R-Oxazepam glucuronidation was not affected by either genotype or gender (p > 0.05). In conclusion, gender and D85Y genotype are identified as major determinants of S-oxazepam glucuronidation by human liver and may explain in part polymorphic oxazepam glucuronidation by human subjects.
8893044	Use of site-specified tritium labelling to confirm the formation of 17-oxosparteine as a minor urinary metabolite of sparteine in man.	1. The synthesis of [17,17-3H2]-sparteine and its oral administration has enabled the specific identification of 17-oxosparteine as a minor urinary metabolite (approximately 1% dose) in two healthy male volunteers.
14500588	HPLC determination of erythrocyte methotrexate polyglutamates after low-dose methotrexate therapy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Methotrexate (MTX) may produce antiarthritic effects through polyglutamation to methotrexate polyglutamates (MTXPGs), a process that covalently attaches sequential gamma-linked glutamic residues to MTX. We sought to develop an innovative HPLC method for the quantification of these metabolites in erythrocytes. Two alternative approaches were developed. In the first approach, MTXPGs from 50 micro L of packed erythrocytes were converted to MTX in the presence of plasma gamma-glutamyl hydrolase and mercaptoethanol at 37 degrees C. In the second approach, MTXPG species (up to the hepta order of glutamation) from 100 micro L packed erythrocytes were directly quantified in a single run. In both methods, the MTXPGs were extracted from the biological matrix by a simple perchloric acid deproteinization step with direct injection of the extract into the HPLC. The chromatography used a C(18) reversed-phase column, an ammonium acetate/acetonitrile buffer, and postcolumn photo-oxidation of MTXPGs to fluorescent analytes. Intra- and interday imprecision (CVs) were <10% at low and high concentrations of analytes for both methods. The limit of quantification was 5 nmol/L. In 70 patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving weekly low-dose MTX, the mean (SD) total MTXPG concentration measured after conversion of MTXPGs to MTX was similar to the total MTXPG concentration calculated from the sum of individual MTXPG species [117 (56) vs 120 (59) nmol/L; r = 0.97; slope = 1.0]. The triglutamate predominated over all other MTXPG species (36% of total), the pentaglutamate was the highest order of glutamation detected, and a stability study revealed no change in the polyglutamation pattern in erythrocytes 48 h after phlebotomy when the specimen was stored at 2-8 degrees C. The proposed method for quantification of erythrocyte MTXPGs is rapid, sensitive, and accurate and can be applied to the routine monitoring of MTX therapy.
18563832	Comparative preclinical drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic evaluation of novel 4-aminoquinoline anti-malarials.	The disposition of three 4-aminoquinoline leads, namely isoquine (ISO), des-ethyl isoquine (DEI) and N-tert-butyl isoquine (NTBI), were studied in a range of in vivo and in vitro assays to assist in selecting an appropriate candidate for further development. Analogous to amodiaquine (ADQ), ISO undergoes oxidative N-dealkylation to form DEI in vivo. Blood clearance of DEI was as much as 10-fold lower than that of ISO in animals and after oral administration, metabolite exposure exceeded that of parent by as much as 14-fold. Replacement of the N-ethyl with an N-tert-butyl substituent substantially reduced N-dealkylation as blood clearance of NTBI was approximately 2 to 3-fold lower than DEI in mouse, rat, dog and monkey. Mean NTBI oral bioavailability was generally higher than the other leads (>/=68%). Blood cell association was substantial for NTBI, particularly in dog and monkey, where blood to plasma concentration ratios >4 were observed. Human plasma protein binding was similar for NTBI, DEI, and des-ethyl amodiaquine (DEA). Allometric scaling predicted human blood clearance (CL) for NTBI to be low ( approximately 12% liver blood flow). All the 4-aminoquinolines inhibited recombinant human cytochrome P450 2D6 with similar potency; DEI also inhibited 1A2. On balance, NTBI appeared the most promising lead to progress towards full development.
17015058	Human pharmacology of the methamphetamine stereoisomers.	To help predict the consequences of precursor regulation, we compared the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the methamphetamine (INN, metamfetamine) stereoisomers. In this study 12 methamphetamine abusers received intravenous d-methamphetamine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg), l-methamphetamine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg), racemic methamphetamine (0.5 mg/kg), or placebo with the use of a 6-session, double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover design. Pharmacokinetic measures (including area under the plasma concentration-time curve [AUC], elimination half-life, systemic clearance, apparent volume of distribution during the elimination phase, and apparent bioavailability) and pharmacodynamic measures (including heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, and visual analog scale ratings for "intoxication," "good drug effect," and "drug liking") were obtained. Pharmacokinetic parameters for the individual enantiomers given separately were similar, with dose-proportional increases in AUC and maximum plasma concentration. After racemate administration, the AUC for d-methamphetamine was 30% smaller than that for l-methamphetamine (P = .0085). The elimination half-lives were longer for l-methamphetamine (13.3-15.0 hours) than for d-methamphetamine (10.2-10.7 hours) (P < .0001). Compared with placebo, d-methamphetamine (0.25 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, and racemic) increased the heart rate (P < .0001), blood pressure (P < .0001), and respiratory rate (P < .05), and this increase lasted for 6 hours. The peak heart rate changes after racemic methamphetamine and 0.5 mg/kg d- and l-methamphetamine were similar (18.7 +/- 23.4 beats/min, 13.5 +/- 18.5 beats/min, and 10.7 +/- 10.2 beats/min, respectively), but racemic methamphetamine and 0.5 mg/kg d-methamphetamine increased systolic blood pressure more than 0.5 mg/kg l-methamphetamine (33.4 +/- 17.8 beats/min and 34.5 +/- 18.9 beats/min, respectively, versus 19.5 +/- 11.3 beats/min; P < .01). l-Methamphetamine, 0.5 mg/kg, was psychoactive, producing peak intoxication (46.0 +/- 35.3 versus 30.3 +/- 24.9) and drug liking (47.7 +/- 35.1 versus 28.6 +/- 24.8) ratings similar to 0.5 mg/kg d-methamphetamine, but the effects of l-methamphetamine dissipated more quickly (approximately 3 hours versus 6 hours). The effects of 0.25 mg/kg l-methamphetamine were similar to those of placebo. Racemic methamphetamine was similar to d-methamphetamine with regard to most pharmacodynamic measures. The pharmacokinetics of the methamphetamine enantiomers are similar, but there are substantial pharmacodynamic differences between the isomers. At high doses, l-methamphetamine intoxication is similar to that of d-methamphetamine, but the psychodynamic effects are shorter-lived and less desired by abusers. Racemic and d-methamphetamine have similar effects and would be expected to have comparable abuse liabilities.
17846021	A phase I and pharmacokinetic study of lapatinib in combination with infusional 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin and irinotecan.	This study determined the optimally tolerated regimen (OTR) of oral lapatinib administered in combination with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) and assessed the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the combination. Twenty-five patients were enrolled; 12 patients were treated at three dose levels to determine OTR; then 13 patients were treated at OTR to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of the combination. The 2-weekly OTR comprised lapatinib 1250 mg/day with irinotecan 108 mg/m(2) (day 1) and leucovorin 200 mg/m(2), 5-FU bolus 240 mg/m(2) and 5-FU infusion 360 mg/m(2) (days 1 and 2); doses of 5-FU and irinotecan represent a 40% reduction in dose compared to conventional FOLFIRI. Dose-limiting toxicities were grade 3 diarrhoea and grade 4 neutropenia. Co-administration of lapatinib increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve of SN-38, the active metabolite of irinotecan, by an average of 41%; no other pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Of 19 patients evaluable for disease response assessment, four patients had partial response and nine patients had stable disease. The combination of lapatinib and FOLFIRI is safe and demonstrates clinical activity; the documented PK interaction can effectively be compensated by lowering the doses of 5-FU and irinotecan. This regime may be further tested in a phase II trial.
11339288	Simultaneous determination of buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine, and buprenorphine-glucuronide in plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	For the first time, an LC-MS-MS method has been developed for the simultaneous analysis of buprenorphine (BUP), norbuprenorphine (NBUP), and buprenorphine-glucuronide (BUPG) in plasma. Analytes were isolated from plasma by C18 SPE and separated by gradient RP-LC. Electrospray ionization and MS-MS analyses were carried out using a PE-Sciex API-3000 tandem mass spectrometer. The m/z 644-->m/z 468 transition was monitored for BUPG, whereas for BUP, BUP-d4, NBUP, and NBUP-d3 it was necessary to monitor the surviving parent ions in order to achieve the required sensitivity. The method exhibited good linearity from 0.1 to 50 ng/ml (r2> or =0.998). Extraction recovery was higher than 77% for BUPG and higher than 88% for both BUP and NBUP. The LOQ was established at 0.1 ng/ml for the three analytes. The method was validated on plasma samples collected in a controlled intravenous and sublingual buprenorphine administration study. Norbuprenorphine-glucuronide was also tentatively detected in plasma by monitoring the m/z 590-->m/z 414 transition.
22544644	Absorption, disposition, metabolic fate and elimination of the anti-epileptic drug lacosamide in humans: mass balance following intravenous and oral administration.	The absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination of the anti-epileptic drug lacosamide were determined in 10 healthy male volunteers following intravenous or oral administration in a single-center, open-label, single-dose trial. Volunteers were randomized to receive either a continuous intravenous infusion of 100 mg (40 Ci) [C]-lacosamide administered over 60 min, or a 100 mg (40 Ci) [C]-lacosamide dose given as an oral solution. During the infusion, total radioactivity concentrations reached peak levels at 1 h post dose followed by a decline of 71 % within 24 h. More than 97 % of radioactivity was excreted within 168 h; 96.8 % in urine and 0.3 % in feces. Following oral administration, total radioactivity concentrations increased to peak levels within 0.5 h followed by a decline of 65 % within 24 h. Approximately 94.6 % of radioactivity was excreted within 168 h after oral administration, 94.2 % by the kidneys and 0.4% in feces. A comparison of AUC values (po/iv) of unchanged lacosamide indicates a high absolute bioavailability. The metabolic profile was analyzed using pooled urine samples, and following intravenous and oral administration, respectively, a total of 38 and 34 % unchanged lacosamide, 28 and 28 % of the desmethyl metabolite and 19 and 17 % of a polar fraction were measured. Additional metabolites were identified only in small amounts (<3 %). In plasma at maximum concentration, most of the total radioactivity was found as unchanged drug after intravenous and oral dose. The plasma concentration curves of total radioactivity following intravenous and oral administration were similar.
15607587	A foxy intoxication.	Foxy is the colloquial name for the hallucinogen 5-ethoxy-diisopropyltryptamine (5-MeO-DIPT). A non-fatality involving a 23-year-old Caucasian man who ingested a capsule containing 5-MeO-DIPT is described. He presented to the Emergency Department, not with visual nor auditory hallucinations but with sensory hallucinations, that of formication and paranoia. He was observed and given supportive care for 4 h, then discharged without any known sequelae. Blood and urine were collected for laboratory analyses. Foxy and its metabolites were identified in urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The concentrations of 5-MeO-DIPT in the serum and urine were 0.14 and 1.6 microg/mL, respectively. The drug undergoes oxidative deamination to form 5-methoxy-indole acetic acid. The urinary concentration of this metabolite was 0.17 microg/mL. Also, the urine contained three other related compounds. Two of them have been described in a previous case of 5-MeO-DIPT ingestion as 5-methoxy-isopropyltryptamine (5-MeO-IPT) and 5-methoxy-diisopropyltryptamine-N'-oxide (5-MeO-DIPT-N'-oxide). The third compound was substantially present in the urine and was tentatively identified as 5-hydroxy-diisopropyltryptamine (5-OH-DIPT). Only the parent drug, 5-MeO-DIPT was detected in the serum sample.
14744942	Biotransformation of fucoxanthinol into amarouciaxanthin A in mice and HepG2 cells: formation and cytotoxicity of fucoxanthin metabolites.	Fucoxanthin, a major carotenoid in edible brown algae, potentially inhibits the proliferation of human prostate cancer cells via apoptosis induction. However, it has been postulated that dietary fucoxanthin is hydrolyzed into fucoxanthinol in the gastrointestinal tract before absorption in the intestine. In the present study, we investigated the further biotransformation of orally administered fucoxanthin and estimated the cytotoxicity of fucoxanthin metabolites on PC-3 human prostate cancer cells. After the oral administration of fucoxanthin in mice, two metabolites, fucoxanthinol and an unknown metabolite, were found in the plasma and liver. The unknown metabolite was isolated from the incubation mixture of fucoxanthinol and mouse liver preparation (10,000 g supernatant of homogenates), and a series of instrumental analyses identified it as amarouciaxanthin A [(3S,5R,6'S)-3,5,6'-trihydroxy-6,7-didehydro-5,6,7',8'-tetrahydro-beta,epsilon-carotene-3',8'-dione]. The conversion of fucoxanthinol into amarouciaxanthin A was predominantly shown in liver microsomes. This dehydrogenation/isomerization of the 5,6-epoxy-3-hydroxy-5,6-dihydro-beta end group of fucoxanthinol into the 6'-hydroxy-3'-oxo-epsilon end group of amarouciaxanthin A required NAD(P)+ as a cofactor, and the optimal pH for the conversion was 9.5 to 10.0. Fucoxanthinol supplemented to culture medium via HepG2 cells was also converted into amarouciaxanthin A. The 50% inhibitory concentrations on the proliferation of PC-3 human prostate cancer cells were 3.0, 2.0, and 4.6 microM for fucoxanthin, fucoxanthinol, and amarouciaxanthin A, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the enzymatic dehydrogenation of a 3-hydroxyl end group of xanthophylls in mammals.
16317695	Novel biotransformation and physiological properties of norursodeoxycholic acid in humans.	Experiments were performed in 2 volunteers to define the biotransformation and physiological properties of norursodeoxycholic acid (norUDCA), the C(23) (C(24)-nor) homolog of UDCA. To complement the in vivo studies, the biotransformation of norUDCA ex vivo using precision-cut human liver slices was also characterized. In the human studies, both a tracer dose given intravenously and a physiological dose (7.9 mmol, 3.0 g) given orally were excreted equally in bile and urine. By chromatography and mass spectrometry, the dominant biotransformation product of norUDCA in bile and urine was the C-23 ester glucuronide. Little N-acyl amidation (with glycine or taurine) occurred. The oral dose induced a sustained bicarbonate-rich hypercholeresis, with total bile flow averaging 20 microL/kg/min, a rate extrapolating to 2 L/d. The increased bile flow was attributed to cholehepatic shunting of norUDCA as well to the lack of micelles in bile. Phospholipid and cholesterol secretion relative to bile acid secretion decreased during secretion of norUDCA and its metabolites, presumably also because of the absence of micelles in canalicular bile. When incubated with human liver slices, norUDCA was glucuronidated, whereas UDCA was conjugated with glycine or taurine. In conclusion, in humans, norUDCA is glucuronidated rather than amidated. In humans, but not animals, there is considerable renal elimination of the C-23 ester glucuronide, the dominant metabolite. NorUDCA ingestion induces a bicarbonate-rich hypercholeresis and evokes less phospholipid and cholesterol secretion into bile than UDCA. Molecules that undergo cholehepatic shunting should be powerful choleretics in humans.
19640353	Safety and pharmacokinetics of single doses of aclidinium bromide, a novel long-acting, inhaled antimuscarinic, in healthy subjects.	Aclidinium bromide is a novel antimuscarinic being developed for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The objective of this Phase I study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as well as the tolerability, safety and pharmacokinetics of aclidinium in healthy subjects. 16 healthy subjects were randomized to receive 5 single ascending doses of aclidinium 600 - 6,000 microg or placebo inhaled via dry powder inhaler, with 7 day washouts. Safety measurements included adverse events (AEs), physical examination, vital signs, pupillometry examination, clinical laboratory tests, and 12-lead electrocardiogram. Pharmacokinetic parameters of aclidinium and its metabolites were assessed. The incidence of AEs was comparable between aclidinium and placebo at all doses. Most AEs were mild to moderate with no dose-related or anticholinergic/cardiac AEs. At doses >or= 2,400 microg, only 13 AEs were considered treatment related. Aclidinium (600 - 6,000 microg) did not produce function-limiting or severe AEs in >or= 50% of subjects; hence, the prospectively-defined MTD was not established. Aclidinium was rapidly converted in plasma into alcohol and carboxylic acid metabolites, and was no longer detectable after 3 hours post-dose for all doses. At lower doses, aclidinium was quantifiable only up to 1 hour post-dose in the majority of subjects. Maximum plasma concentrations for aclidinium were reached within 5 - 7 minutes (all doses) and declined rapidly. Mean elimination half-lives of aclidinium > 2,400 microg were approximately 1 hour. AUC and Cmax increased proportionately up to 4,800 microg. Aclidinium appears to be safe and well tolerated in single doses of 600 - 6,000 microg.
18757786	Effect of single and repeated doses of ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide.	Effects of single and multiple doses of oral ketoconazole on roflumilast and its active metabolite, roflumilast N-oxide, were investigated in healthy subjects. In study 1, subjects (n = 26) received oral roflumilast 500 microg once daily for 11 days and a concomitant 200-mg single dose of ketoconazole on day 11. In study 2, subjects (n = 16) received oral roflumilast 500 microg on days 1 and 11 and a repeated dose of ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily from days 8 to 20. Coadministration of single-dose ketoconazole with steady-state roflumilast increased the AUC of roflumilast by 34%; C(max) was unchanged. For roflumilast N-oxide, AUC and C(max) decreased by 12% and 20%, respectively. Repeated doses of ketoconazole increased the AUC and C(max) of roflumilast by 99% and 23%, respectively; for roflumilast N-oxide, AUC was unchanged, and C(max) decreased by 38%. No clinically relevant adverse events were observed. Coadministration of ketoconazole and roflumilast does not require dose adjustment of roflumilast.
16328416	A phase I and pharmacokinetic study of a powder-filled capsule formulation of oral irinotecan (CPT-11) given daily for 5 days every 3 weeks in patients with advanced solid tumors.	Intravenous (i.v.) irinotecan is a cytotoxic topoisomerase I inhibitor with broad clinical activity in metastatic colorectal cancer and other tumors. The development of an oral formulation of irinotecan could enhance convenience and lessen the expense of palliative irinotecan delivery. This phase I study evaluated the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and pharmacokinetics (PK) of irinotecan given as a powder-filled capsule (PFC) daily for 5 days every 3 weeks. Patients with advanced solid tumors received escalating doses of oral irinotecan daily for 5 days every 3 weeks. Plasma samples were collected following the first and fifth doses of irinotecan during Cycle 1 to determine the PK of irinotecan and its major circulating metabolites: SN-38, SN-38G, and APC. 20 patients (median age 61.5 years, range 40-75; M/F 12/8; ECOG PS 0=5, 1=11, 2=4) received oral irinotecan at dose levels of 30 (n=3), 40 (n=3), 50 (n=6), and 60 (n=8) mg/m(2)/day. Of the eight patients enrolled at 60 mg/m(2), three patients experienced DLT (> or = grade 3) consisting of nausea (three patients), vomiting (three patients), diarrhea (two patients), and febrile neutropenia (two patients) for which all the three patients required hospitalization. Treatment of six patients at the 50-mg/m(2) dose level resulted in no DLT. Other toxicities observed include abdominal pain, alopecia, anorexia, and asthenia. After oral administration, irinotecan was rapidly absorbed into systemic circulation and converted to the active metabolite SN-38. Increasing dose levels resulted in a dose-dependent increase in mean exposure parameters (Cmax and AUC) of irinotecan and metabolites. Systemic exposure parameters (Cmax and AUC(0-24)) of irinotecan and SN-38 were comparable between days 1 and 5. The extent of conversion from irinotecan to SN-38 was approximately threefold higher after the oral administration compared to that previously observed after i.v. administration. The exposure parameters of irinotecan or SN-38 are of limited value in predicting severity of Cycle 1 toxicities in the twofold dose range evaluated. Daily oral administration of irinotecan as the PFC formulation for 5 days every 3 weeks can safely deliver protracted exposure to SN-38, with the MTD of 50 mg/m(2)/d.
11950784	Effects of endogenous steroids on CYP3A4-mediated drug metabolism by human liver microsomes.	In the present study, we investigated the effects of 14 endogenous steroids on the CYP3A4-mediated drug metabolism by human liver microsomes in vitro. Nevirapine (NVP) 2-, 12-hydroxylations, carbamazepine (CBZ) 10,11-epoxidation, triazolam (TZM) 1'-, 4-hydroxylations, erythromycin (EM) N-demethylation, and 2-sulphamoylacetylphenol (SMAP) formation from zonisamide (ZNS) were investigated. The activities of the NVP 2-, 12-hydroxylations, the CBZ 10,11-epoxidation, and the TZM 4-hydroxylation were activated by endogenous androgens, such as androstenedione (AND), testosterone, and dehydroepiandrosterone. However, these androgens inhibited EM N-demethylation, TZM 1'-hydroxylation, and SMAP formation. To understand the mechanisms of these effects of androgens on CYP3A4 activities, we performed a kinetic analysis of the metabolism of CBZ and ZNS in the presence or absence of AND using the modified two-site equation model. The addition of AND to the reaction mixture caused a drastic increase in the activity of CBZ 10,11-epoxidase, especially at a low substrate concentration, and resulted in a change in the kinetics from the sigmoid to Michaelis-Menten type. On the other hand, the metabolism of ZNS was strongly inhibited by AND, although no allosteric change was observed in this case. These data demonstrate that endogenous steroids, especially androgens, strongly affect CYP3A4-mediated drug metabolism in vitro. The postulated mechanisms of the interactions between AND and CBZ or ZNS are discussed.
16025294	Polymorphism of CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 in the Faroese population.	The purpose of the study was to study the distribution of poor and extensive metabolizers of CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 and to genotype for CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 among 312 randomly selected Faroese. The participants were phenotyped for CYP2D6 with the use of sparteine. The distribution of the sparteine metabolic ratio (sparteine/didehydrosparteines) was bimodal, and 14.5% (n=44; 95% CI: 10.7--18.9%) of the subjects were phenotyped as poor metabolizers. The frequency of poor metabolizers was higher (P=0.0002; chi(2) test) among the Faroese than in other European populations (7.4%). Genotype analyses for the CYP2D6*3, *4, *6 and *9 alleles were performed using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (TaqMan, Foster City, CA, USA), and we found 14.6% (n=45) (95% CI: 10.8--19.0%) with deficient CYP2D6 genes (*3/*4, *4/*4, *4/*6, *6/*6) in the Faroese population. The subjects were phenotyped for CYP2C19 with the use of mephenytoin and 10 subjects, i.e., 3.2% (95% CI: 1.6--5.9%) were phenotyped as poor metabolizers. Genotype analysis for the CYP2C19*2 and *3 alleles was performed by means of PCR analysis, and 2.9% (n=9) (95% CI: 1.3-5.4%) of the Faroese were found to have a deficient CYP2C19 gene all explained by the CYP2C19*2/*2 genotype. The allele frequencies of the CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 alleles were 8.8% (95% CI: 6.7--11.4%) and 5.3% (95% CI: 3.7--7.4%), respectively, while the CYP2C8*3 allele frequency was 6.9% (95% CI: 5.0--9.2%). Real-time PCR (TaqMan) was used for both CYP2C9 and CYP2C8 genotype analyses. The frequency of CYP2D6 poor metabolizers is twofold higher among the Faroese population than other Caucasians, while the frequencies of Faroese subjects with decreased CYP2C19, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 enzyme activity are the same as seen in other Caucasian populations. A possible consequence might be a higher incidence of side effects among Faroese patients taking pharmaceuticals that are CYP2D6 substrates.
8130628	Direct enantioselective separation of bevantolol by high-performance liquid chromatography on normal and reverse cellulose chiral stationary phases.	A direct, isocratic and simple chromatographic method is described for the enantiomeric separation of bevantolol (BEV) using normal and reverse cellulose tris (3,5-dimethylphenylcarbamate) chiral stationary phases (CSPs) known as Chiralcel OD and Chiralcel OD-R, respectively. The effect of various alcohols present in the mobile phase on the separation factor (a) and resolution factor (Rs) has been studied. The method has been used to determine and identify the BEV enantiomers in human urine after oral administration of racemic BEV. The chiral recognition mechanism(s) between the analyte and these chiral stationary phases is proposed.
1914377	The influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of the antiepileptic agent oxcarbazepine.	The disposition of oxcarbazepine was studied in 12 young and 12 elderly healthy male and 12 young and 12 elderly healthy female volunteers, with emphasis on the influence of age. Oxcarbazepine was administered as a single dose of either 300 mg (men) or 600 mg (women), followed by multiple-dose (300 mg) administration twice a day for 7 days (men) or 6 days (women). Semilogarithmic plasma concentration-time curves showed an increasing decline at decreasing concentrations. Accumulation of the pharmacologically active metabolite monohydroxycarbamazepine was found to be more than one would anticipate on the basis of linear and unchanged pharmacokinetics. Saturation did not seem to occur at the level of renal excretion. No apparent differences between male and female volunteers were observed. A significant higher maximum concentration, higher area under the curve parameters, and a lower elimination rate constant were observed in the elderly. These observations are in line with a smaller renal clearance of monohydroxycarbamazepine in the elderly group. In a clinical situation, these age-related differences are not likely to have important implications. In general, treatment with oxcarbazepine was well tolerated.
16757081	Diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion are metabolised by multiple cytochromes P450 in human liver.	This research describes both the activation and detoxification of diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion by recombinant P450 isozymes and by human liver microsomes that had been characterised for P450 marker activities. Wide variations in activity were found for diazinon (50 microM; 500 microM) activation to diazoxon, chlorpyrifos (100 microM) to chlorpyrifos oxon and parathion (5 microM, 20 microM and 200 microM) to paraoxon in NADPH-dependent reactions. In parallel, the dearylated metabolites pyrimidinol (IHMP), trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP) and p-nitrophenol (PNP) were produced from diazinon, chlorpyrifos and parathion, respectively, with similarly wide variations in activity. There were significant correlations between diazoxon formation from diazinon (50 microM; 500 microM) with the three CYP3A4/5 marker reactions, while IHMP formation correlated significantly with the three CYP3A4/5 reactions, the CYP2C8 marker reaction (p<0.05) and the CYP2C19 marker (p<0.01). Chlorpyrifos oxon formation from chlorpyrifos did not correlate with any of the P450 markers but TCP formation correlated with one of the CYP3A4/5 reactions (p<0.01) and CYP2C8 (p<0.01), CYP2C19 (p<0.01) and CYP1A2 (p<0.01) mediated reactions. There were significant relationships between paraoxon formation from parathion (5 microM, 20 microM and 200 microM) and the CYP3A4/5, CYP2C8 and CYP1A2 mediated reactions, although only the latter two isoforms correlated significantly with the lowest parathion concentration. Recombinant CYPs 2D6, 2C19, 3A5, 3A4 were most efficient in producing diazoxon and IHMP from diazinon; CYPs 2D6, 3A5, 2B6 and 3A4 were best at producing chlorpyrifos-oxon and CYPs 2C19, 2D6, 3A5 and 3A4 at producing TCP from chlorpyrifos (100 microM). These data strongly suggest that CYPs 3A4/5, 2C8, 1A2, 2C19 and 2D6 are primarily involved in the metabolism of all three OPs, although the profile of participating isoforms was different for each of the pesticides suggesting that chemical structure influences which P450s mediate the reaction. The marked inter-individual variation in expression of the various P450 isozymes may result in sub-populations of individuals that produce higher systemic oxon levels with increased susceptibility to OP toxicity.
15902983	Pharmacokinetics of the active metabolites of ethyl loflazepate in elderly patients who died of asphyxia associated with benzodiazepine-related toxicity.	We determined the pharmacokinetics of ethyl loflazepate (Lof) in elderly patients who died of benzodiazepine-related toxicity. Three elderly patients with body mass indexes of less than 17 kg/m2 died of asphyxia after having taken maintenance doses of Lof for 2 to 3 weeks. We measured serum concentrations of the active metabolites of Lof using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and a benzodiazepine receptor assay to determine the pharmacokinetics of each. On admission, the serum concentrations of the active metabolites of Lof ([Lofl) were 256 ng/mL, 425 ng/mL, and 177 ng/mL in cases 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Serum benzodiazepine-receptor binding activities, expressed as diazepam equivalent concentrations ([Bz]), were 1800 ng/mL, 2200 ng/mL, and 1500 ng/mL. The T1/2(beta) of [Lof] were 124 and 121 h in cases 1 and 2 and the T1/2(beta) of [Bz] were 75 and 87 h. The distribution volume in the elderly was reduced due to a small lipid compartment, and total drug clearance was decreased due to the decline in liver and kidney function. These changes did not prolong T1/2(beta) but did increase plasma concentrations of active metabolites, especially in case 2, and a slight decrease in protein binding increased the amount of free active metabolites greatly.
15892174	Structure elucidation of aplidine metabolites formed in vitro by human liver microsomes using triple quadrupole mass spectrometry.	The cyclic depsipeptide aplidine is a new anti-cancer drug of marine origin. Four metabolites of this compound were found after incubation with pooled human microsomes using gradient high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. After chromatographic isolation, the metabolites have been identified using nano-electrospray triple quadrupole mass spectrometry. A highly specific sodium-ion interaction with the cyclic structure opens the depsipeptide ring, and cleavage of the amino acid residues gives sequence information when activated by collision-induced dissociation in the second quadrupole. The aplidine molecule could undergo the following metabolic reactions: hydroxylation at the isopropyl group (metabolites apli-h 1 and apli-h 2); C-dealkylation at the N(Me)-leucine group (metabolite apli-da); hydroxylation at the isopropyl group and C-dealkylation at the N(Me)-leucine group (metabolite apli-da/h), and C-demethylation at the threonine group (metabolite apli-dm). The identification of these metabolites formed in vitro may greatly aid the elucidation of the metabolic pathways of aplidine in humans.
19356073	Investigations into the drug-drug interaction potential of tapentadol in human liver microsomes and fresh human hepatocytes.	The new analgesic tapentadol was evaluated for induction and inhibition of several cytochrome P450 enzymes in vitro, and protein binding was assessed. It was concluded that no clinically relevant drug-drug interactions are likely to occur through either mechanism.
7734934	A highly sensitive method to quantify triazolam and its metabolites with liquid chromatography--mass spectrometry.	We established a highly sensitive method to determine triazolam and its major metabolites, alpha-hydroxytriazolam and 4-hydroxytriazolam, in human plasma and urine with a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry system which incorporates an atmospheric chemical ionization interface. A plasma sample and a urine sample after solvent extraction were injected into an ODS column of reversed phase with a mobile phase in a linear solvent gradient of initially 50 mM ammonium acetate (pH 4.0) 50%:methanol 50% and 15 min later methanol 100%; quantification limits of as low as 20 pg/mL at an SNR of 3 were obtained for each compound. With diazepam as an internal standard, recovery yields of 84, 81, and 77% were obtained for triazolam, alpha-hydroxytriazolam and 4-hydroxytriazolam, respectively.
22260969	HPLC method for determination of biologically active epoxy-transformers of treosulfan in human plasma: pharmacokinetic application.	Clinical trials demonstrated treosulfan (TREO) as a promising myeloablative agent prior to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). TREO is a specific pro-drug from which biologically active mono- (S,S-EBDM) and diepoxybutane (S,S-DEB) derivatives are formed in vitro or in vivo by a non-enzymatic pH and temperature-dependent intramolecular nucleophilic substitution. Following extraction of the plasma samples with a mixture of dichloromethane and acetonitrile, S,S-EBDM and S,S-DEB were derivatized with 3-nitrobenzenesulfonic acid (3-NBS) to UV-absorbing esters. Optimal temperature and time of derivatization as well as extraction method and also the effect of pH on TREO stability in plasma were established. Identity of the synthesized derivatives was confirmed by mass spectrometry. The post-derivatization mixture was purified from the excess of unreacted 3-NBS by extraction with water. The derivatization products and 2,2'-dinitrobiphenyl (internal standard) were separated on Nucleosil 100 C18 column using a mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile and water. The developed method was validated and demonstrated adequate accuracy and precision. Limit of quantification for both S,S-EBDM and S,S-DEB amounted to 2.5 M. The method was applied in clinical conditions to quantify the levels of TREO activation products in plasma of children undergoing HSCT. The methodology for simultaneous determination of TREO epoxy-transformers in human plasma is described for the first time.
17190377	Influence of avosentan (SPP3OI) on the pharmacokinetics of a second generation oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel in healthy female volunteers.	Avosentan (SPP301) is a potent and highly selective ETA receptor blocker and is clinically investigated in diabetic nephropathy. This study was designed to evaluate whether avosentan influences the pharmacokinetics of steroid oral contraceptives. During a run-in phase, 16 healthy females received an oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol 0.03 mg and levonorgestrel 0.15 mg for the first 21 days of a minimum of one menstrual cycle. In a subsequent double-blind, randomized two menstrual cycle crossover treatment phase, subjects received either avosentan 25 mg or placebo once daily concomitantly with the oral contraceptive. Serum ethinylestradiol and plasma levonorgestrel concentrations were measured on Days 14 and 15 of the two treatment periods for the evaluation of the 24-hour kinetic parameters, and an additional sample was collected on Day 21 to determine their trough concentrations. Serum progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels as well as plasma avosentan and Ro 68-5925 levels were determined on Days 13, 14, 15 and 21 of each cycle of the treatment phase. Avosentan had a statistically significant lowering effect of 9 - 15% on the ethinylestradiol serum concentration levels. The 90% confidence intervals of the pharmacokinetic parameters did not include 1 or exceeded the 0.8 - 1.25 acceptance range for lack of interaction. The plasma concentration-time curves and pharmacokinetic parameters of levonor-gestrel were not statistically different during concomitant treatment with either avosentan or placebo. Compared to placebo, avosentan lowered the serum concentrations of progesterone statistically significantly by about 8% and increased slightly the LH and FSH serum concentrations. Safety and tolerability patterns were comparable during avosentan and placebo administration. Because of the effect of avosentan on the concentration levels of ethinylestradiol and progesterone, it is possible that the contraceptive efficacy of low-dose combination oral contraceptives may be adversely affected during avosentan treatment.
8055632	Glucuronidation of carcinogenic arylamines and their N-hydroxy derivatives by rat and human phenol UDP-glucuronosyltransferase of the UGT1 gene complex.	Since carcinogenic arylamines are sequentially oxidized and conjugated with glucuronic acid, differences in glucuronidation may critically determine the toxic potential of these compounds. Therefore, N-glucuronidation of 1- and 2-naphthylamine (1-NA and 2-NA),4-aminobiphenyl(4-ABP) and their N-hydroxy derivatives was investigated using rat and human liver microsomes and V79 cell-expressed phenol UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) of the UGT1 gene complex. Cell-expressed UGTs included rat and human UGT1.6, which are known to conjugate planar phenols, and human UGT1.7, conjugating both planar and bulky phenol. (i) N-Glucuronidation of 1- and 2-NA and of N-hydroxy-2-NA was inducible by 3-methylcholanthrene in rat liver microsomes whereas N-glucuronidation of the bulky arylamines 4-ABP and N-hydroxy-4-ABP was not. In support of these findings mutagenicity of N-hydroxy-2-NA in the Ames test was markedly reduced upon addition of UDP-glucuronic acid using liver homogenates from 3-methylcholanthrene-treated rats. (ii) With cell-expressed rat UGT1.6, non-carcinogenic 1-NA was conjugated with the highest rate and with higher affinity than 2-NA. UGT1.6 showed poor activity towards N-hydroxy-4-ABP and 4-ABP. (iii) Substrate specificity of human UGT1.6 also appeared to be limited to planar 1-NA, 2-NA and its N-hydroxy derivative, whereas UGT1.7 showed broader substrate specificity, including the bulky arylamine 4-ABP and its N-hydroxy derivative. The results suggest marked differences in substrate specificity of different UGT isozymes for arylamines and their N-hyroxy derivatives.
15618663	Separation and determination of diastereomeric flurbiprofen acyl glucuronides in human urine by LC/ESI-MS with a simple column-switching technique.	Endogenous and exogenous compounds having a carboxyl group, such as alpha-arylpropionic acid derivatives, undergo a phase II metabolic reaction to produce an amino acid conjugate through the acyl CoA thioester as well as the acyl glucuronide. It was previously shown that flurbiprofen, one of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, is not subjected to activation of the carboxyl group by the CoA thioester ligase, suggesting that acyl glucuronidation is the main phase II metabolic pathway. Recent observations, however, have demonstrated that the nonenzymatic formation of a covalently protein-bound drug, which is produced by the action of the acyl glucuronide, may cause hypersensitive reactions. Accordingly, a reliable method to measure diastereomeric flurbiprofen glucuronides in human biological fluids is required. In this study, we describe a liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric method with a simple column switching technique to determine diastereomeric flurbiprofen acyl glucuronides in human urine specimens. The optimal conditions for the electrospray ionization were established based on the effects of orifice and ring lens voltages as well as mobile phase additives. The proposed method applied to urine specimens demonstrates high accuracy and reproducibility for the determination of flurbiprofen glucuronides in a quantitative range from 0.74 to 146.5 microg/mL, with a detection limit of 7.4 pg (17.6 fmol)/injection of S-flurbiprofen glucuronide, at a signal-to-noise ratio of 10 under the selected ion-monitoring mode. The urinary concentration of R-flurbiprofen glucuronides in healthy subjects determined by the proposed method were 6.8-29.4 microg/mL, and those values were slightly higher than that of S-flurbiprofen glucuronides (3.9-18.0 microg/mL).
12957180	High-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of quinine and 3-hydroxyquinine in blood samples dried on filter paper.	A simple high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the simultaneous analysis of quinine and 3-hydroxyquinine in blood samples dried on filter paper is described. Sample preparation involves liquid-liquid extraction with toluene-butanol 75:25 (v/v) followed by evaporation. A reversed-phase liquid chromatography system with fluorescence detection was used. The limit of determination was 10 nM for both quinine and 3-hydroxyquinine and the recovery varied between 78 and 109%. The within- and between-assay coefficients of variation varied between 2-5% and 4-10%, respectively. No loss of either analyte occurred after storage for 2 months at room temperature or at 37 degrees C. This method for sampling has advantages that make it of great value for clinical and pharmacokinetic studies especially in remote regions where storage and transportation is problematic.
19854012	Measurement of ethyl glucuronide in vitreous humor with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	It is important to detect alcohol intake in postmortem investigations. However it can be difficult to interpret the results of alcohol analysis in putrefied corpses. To avoid this difficulty, there have been studies on detection of ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a non-oxidative metabolite of ethyl alcohol. The aim of this study was investigate EtG levels in vitreous humor (VH), a valuable material in postmortem investigations, and to compare VH EtG levels with blood and urine EtG levels. Blood, urine and VH specimens were collected from 110 cases. Twenty-four cases in which ethyl alcohol was detected were included in the study. Although ethanol could not be detected, one case was added after having positive results of EtG levels in urine and VH as if he was claimed that he was an alcoholic and he had taken alcohol when he died but it could not be detected after 6 days of hospitalization. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to investigate EtG in blood, urine and VH specimens from 25 cases. VH EtG was in measurable amounts in 19 cases (n: 25). In fact, VH EtG levels ranged from 0.05 to 1.90 mg/L and were below the limit of detection (LOD is 0.03 mg/L) in six cases (n: 25). Blood EtG was in measurable amounts in 21 cases (n: 25). Blood EtG levels ranged from 0.64 to 5.82 mg/L and were below the limit of detection (LOD is 0.083 mg/L) in four cases. EtG was detected in urine in 17 cases (n: 19). Urine EtG levels ranged from 0.25 to 623 mg/L and were below the limit of detection (LOD is 0.12 mg/L) in one case. There was a significant relation between VH EtG levels and blood and urine EtG levels. The results of the study showed that postmortem VH EtG can be measured to reveal alcohol intake.
22648560	Evaluation of six proton pump inhibitors as inhibitors of various human cytochromes P450: focus on cytochrome P450 2C19.	Six proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), omeprazole, lansoprazole, esomeprazole, dexlansoprazole, pantoprazole, and rabeprazole, were shown to be weak inhibitors of cytochromes P450 (CYP3A4, -2B6, -2D6, -2C9, -2C8, and -1A2) in human liver microsomes. In most cases, IC values were greater than 40 M, except for dexlansoprazole and lansoprazole with CYP1A2 (IC = 8 M) and esomeprazole with CYP2C8 (IC = 31 M). With the exception of CYP2C19 inhibition by omeprazole and esomeprazole (IC ratio, 2.5 to 5.9), there was no evidence for a marked time-dependent shift in IC (IC ratio,  2) after a 30-min preincubation with NADPH. In the absence of preincubation, lansoprazole (IC = 0.73 M) and esomeprazole (IC = 3.7 M) were the most potent CYP2C19 inhibitors, followed by dexlansoprazole and omeprazole (IC = 7.0 M). Rabeprazole and pantoprazole (IC =  25 M) were the weakest. A similar ranking was obtained with recombinant CYP2C19. Despite the IC ranking, after consideration of plasma levels (static and dynamic), protein binding, and metabolism-dependent inhibition, it is concluded that omeprazole and esomeprazole are the most potent CYP2C19 inhibitors. This was confirmed after the incubation of the individual PPIs with human primary hepatocytes (in the presence of human serum) and by monitoring their impact on diazepam N-demethylase activity at a low concentration of diazepam (2 M). Data described herein are consistent with reports that PPIs are mostly weak inhibitors of cytochromes P450 in vivo. However, two members of the PPI class (esomeprazole and omeprazole) are more likely to serve as clinically relevant inhibitors of CYP2C19.
1606052	The methyl-5 alpha-dihydrotestosterones mesterolone and drostanolone; gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric characterization of the urinary metabolites.	Before including the detection of the methyl-5 alpha-dihydrotestosterones mesterolone (1 alpha-methyl-17 beta-hydroxy-5 alpha-androstan-3-one) and drostanolone (2 alpha-methyl-17 beta-hydroxy-5 alpha-androstan-3-one) in doping control procedures, their urinary metabolites were characterized by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Several metabolites were found after enzymatic hydrolysis and conversion of the respective metabolites to their trimethylsilyl-enol-trimethylsilyl ether derivatives. The major metabolites of mesterolone and drostanolone were identified as 1 alpha-methyl-androsterone and 2 alpha-methyl-androsterone, respectively. The parent compounds and the intermediate 3 alpha,17 beta-dihydroxysteroid metabolites were detected as well. The reduction into the corresponding 3 beta-hydroxysteroids was a minor metabolic pathway. All metabolites were found to be conjugated to glucuronic acid.
16116487	Association of cyclophosphamide pharmacokinetics to polymorphic cytochrome P450 2C19.	Cyclophosphamide (CP), a widely used cytostatic, is metabolized by polymorphic drug metabolizing enzymes particularly cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Its side effects and clinical efficacy exhibit a broad interindividual variability, which might be due to differences in pharmacokinetics. CP-kinetics were determined in 60 patients using a global and a population pharmacokinetic model considering functionally relevant polymorphisms of CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A5, and GSTA1. Moreover, metabolic ratios were calculated for selected CP metabolites, analyzed by (31)P-NMR-spectroscopy. Analysis of variance revealed that the CYP2C19*2 genotype influenced significantly pharmacokinetics of CP at doses </=1000 mg/m(2), whereas there was no evidence of an association of other genotypes to CP elimination or clearance. Mean (+/-SD) CP elimination constants k(e) (h(-1)) were 0.109+/-0.025 in 44 CYP2C19*1/*1 subjects, 0.088+/-0.018 in 13 CYP2C19*1/*2, and 0.076+/-0.014 in three inactive CYP2C19*2/*2 carriers (P=0.009). At CP doses higher than 1000 mg/m(2), a significantly increase of elimination was observed (P=0.001), possibly due to CYP induction. Further studies should link these findings with the clinical outcome.
18057116	Enzymatic C-demethylation of 1-[2-(5-tert-butyl-[1,3,4] oxadiazole-2-carbonyl)-4-fluoro-pyrrolidin-1-yl]-2-(2-hydroxy-1,1-dimethyl-ethylamino)-ethanone (LC15-0133) in rat liver microsomes.	The in vitro metabolism of 1-[2-(5-tert-butyl-[1,3,4] oxadiazole-2-carbonyl)-4-fluoro-pyrrolidin-1-yl]-2-(2-hydroxy-1,1-dimethyl-ethylamino)-ethanone (LC15-0133), a novel dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, was investigated using a hepatic microsomal system. The structures of the metabolites were characterized using mass spectral analysis and by comparison with synthetic references. The in vitro incubation of LC15-0133 with rat liver microsomes resulted in the formation of six metabolites, with the major metabolic reactions being hydroxylation and carbonyl reduction. Of the metabolites, a C-demethylated metabolite (M4) was identified, but was only detected in rat liver microsomes; experimental evidence revealed that the C-demethylated metabolite was generated by nonenzymatic decarboxylation of the carboxyl metabolite (M1). Nonenzymatic decarboxylation is postulated to occur due to the resonance stabilization by the oxadiazole ring attached to the tert-butyl moiety.
15592838	Phase I study of an oral formulation of irinotecan administered daily for 14 days every 3 weeks in patients with advanced solid tumours.	A phase I study was conducted with oral irinotecan given daily for 14 days every 3 weeks in 45 patients with solid tumours to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), toxicity, preliminary antitumour response and pharmacokinetics. Irinotecan was administered orally as a powder-filled capsule at doses ranging from 7.5 to 40 mg/m2 per day. Tumours were predominantly colorectal (30) together with 10 other gastrointestinal, 2 breast, 2 small cell lung and 1 ovarian. All but three patients had received prior chemotherapy. The median number of administered cycles was 3 (range 1-19). Gastrointestinal toxicities (grade 3 nausea, grade 3/4 vomiting and diarrhoea) and one incidence of grade 3 asthenia were dose limiting. There were no grade 3/4 haematological toxicities. The MTD was 30 mg/m2 per day. There were two documented partial responses, one in a patient with cancer of the small intestine and the other in a patient with colon cancer. Stable disease was seen in 16 patients (35.5%). Peak concentrations of irinotecan and metabolite SN-38 were reached within 2.0-2.4 h. The metabolic ratio of SN-38 AUC to irinotecan AUC was 0.17+/-0.10 (mean+/-SD). The dose recommended for phase II studies is 30 mg/m2 per day administered daily for 14 days every 3 weeks.
17481400	Determination of the antidepressant paroxetine and its three main metabolites in human plasma by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method has been developed for the determination in human plasma of the specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant paroxetine and its three main metabolites (M1, M2, M3). Fluorescence detection was used, exciting at lambda = 294 nm and monitoring emission at lambda = 330 nm for paroxetine (lambda(exc) = 280 nm, lambda(em) = 330 nm for M1 and M2; lambda(exc) = 268 nm, lambda(em) = 290 nm for M3). Separation was obtained on a reversed-phase C18 column using a mobile phase composed of 66.7% aqueous phosphate at pH 2.5 and 33.3% acetonitrile. Imipramine (lambda(exc) = 252 nm, lambda(em) = 390 nm) was used as the internal standard. A careful pre-treatment of plasma samples was developed, using solid-phase extraction with C8 cartridges (50 mg, 1 mL). The calibration curves were linear over a working range of 2.5-100 ng mL(-1) for paroxetine and of 5-100 ng mL(-1) for all metabolites. The limit of detection (LOD) was 1.2 ng mL(-1) for PRX and 2.0 ng mL(-1) for the metabolites. The method was applied with success to plasma samples from depressed patients undergoing treatment with paroxetine. Hence, the method seems to be suitable for the therapeutic drug monitoring of paroxetine and its main metabolites in depressed patients' plasma.
17391891	Buprenorphine assay and plasma concentration monitoring in HIV-infected substance users.	The availability of buprenorphine (BUP) provides an alternative approach to the treatment of opioid addiction with methadone, an agent that has many drug-drug interactions when combined with antiretroviral therapy (ART). However, due to limited long-term pharmacokinetic studies in HIV-infected patients, the clinical use of BUP, a CYP450-3A4 substrate, will require that studies be conducted to examine safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics when these drugs are taken for chronic treatment. One clinical approach could include plasma concentration monitoring to avoid under- or overdosing BUP secondary to drug interactions with ART. The measurement of BUP and its active metabolite, norbuprenorphine (NBUP) facilitates the addition of BUP to ART in an attempt to avoid drug toxicity as described in a recent report by Bruce et al. Therefore, our objective was to validate a BUP assay and integrate its application into an ongoing antiretroviral (ARV) plasma concentration monitoring program. A chromatographic method for monitoring BUP and its active metabolite, NBUP was investigated. An assay was developed that would facilitate BUP and ARV measurement from a single 3 mL blood sample (0.75 mL plasma required) in conjunction with a previously validated multiple ARV HPLC method. The method measures BUP and NBUP over the range from 0.25 to 50 ng/mL with mass spectrometry detection. Inter- and intra-assay variation was <or=11%, across the concentration range. The method quantitates BUP and NBUP plasma concentrations within the range of expected values from current BUP dosing guidelines. Use of this combined BUP and ARV plasma concentration monitoring approach for a representative patient receiving BUP, atazanavir and efavirenz demonstrated its clinical application.
15060506	Methylated metabolites of 6-mercaptopurine are associated with hepatotoxicity.	Hepatotoxicity with elevation of aminotransferase levels is common during combined methotrexate and thiopurine therapy. However, the mechanism of hepatotoxicity induced by these drugs remains obscure. We have investigated the relationship of a rise in aminotransferase levels to erythrocyte levels of methotrexate and its polyglutamates, 6-thioguanine nucleotides, the major cytotoxic metabolites of 6-mercaptopurine, and methylated metabolites of 6-mercaptopurine generated by thiopurine methyltransferase in competition with the formation of 6-thioguanine nucleotides. Weighted means of alanine aminotransferase levels and metabolites of methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine were calculated from a total of 929 blood samples from 43 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia during maintenance therapy with methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine. Weighted means of aminotransferase levels were significantly related to the average doses of 6-mercaptopurine (r(s) = 0.60, P <.001), erythrocyte levels of methylated metabolites of 6-mercaptopurine (r(s) = 0.63, P <.001), and thiopurine methyltransferase activity (r(s) = 0.32, P =.03). Weighted means of aminotransferase levels were negatively correlated with erythrocyte levels of 6-thioguanine nucleotides and were not related to the average doses of methotrexate or erythrocyte levels of methotrexate and its polyglutamates. It was found that 6-mercaptopurine and its methylated metabolites are correlated with the degree of hepatotoxicity during methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine maintenance therapy. Further studies are needed to explore whether aminotransferase levels could be used as a surrogate marker for methylated metabolites of 6-mercaptopurine and thus to evaluate 6-mercaptopurine treatment compliance.
23857892	Aldehyde oxidase 1 (AOX1) in human liver cytosols: quantitative characterization of AOX1 expression level and activity relationship.	Aldehyde oxidase 1 (AOX1) is a cytosolic enzyme highly expressed in liver and plays a key role in metabolizing drugs containing aromatic azaheterocyclic substituents. Rapid metabolism catalyzed by AOX1 can cause a drug to exhibit high clearance, low exposure, and hence decreased efficacy or even increased toxicity (if AOX1 generated metabolites are toxic). There is a need to develop the correlation between AOX1 expression levels and AOX1-substrate clearance. A fast, sensitive, and robust liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed to quantify AOX1 in human liver cytosol for the first time. This LC-MS/MS method includes a straightforward ultrafiltration fractionation step and gives great selectivity and wide dynamic range (5.2 pM to 20.7 nM). The AOX1 levels in human liver cytosols of 20 donors were quantified using this method to investigate individual differences in AOX1 expression. No significant individual or gender differences in AOX1 levels were observed, although male donors exhibited a broader distribution than female donors (0.74-2.30 pmol/mg versus 0.74-1.69 pmol/mg, respectively). The AOX1 protein levels measured by LC-MS/MS were consistent with those measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Several donors have a normal AOX1 protein level but low enzyme activity, which might be due to cofactor deficiency, single nucleotide polymorphism, or homodimer dissociation. Cytosols from donors with chronic alcohol consumption had low AOX1-catalyzed carbazeran oxidation activities (<51 l/min per milligram compared with a median of 455 l/min per milligram), but preserved similar AOX1 protein expression levels (approximately 15% less than the median value).
17542019	In vitro assessment of cytochrome P450 inhibition: strategies for increasing LC/MS-based assay throughput using a one-point IC(50) method and multiplexing high-performance liquid chromatography.	A fast and robust LC/MS-based cytochrome P450 (CYP) inhibition assay, using human liver microsomes, has been fully developed and validated for the major human liver CYPs. Probe substrates were phenacetin, diclofenac, S-mephenytoin, and dextromethorphan for CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, respectively. Midazolam and testosterone were chosen for CYP3A4. Furafylline, sulfaphenazole, tranylcypromine, quinidine, and ketoconazole were identified as positive control inhibitors for CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, respectively. To increase the throughput of the assay, a one-point method was developed, using data from CYP inhibition assays conducted at one concentration (i.e., 10 microM), to estimate the drug concentration at which the metabolism of the CYP probe substrate was reduced by 50% (IC(50)). The IC(50) values from the one-point assay were validated by correlating the results with IC(50) values that were obtained with a traditional eight-point concentration-response curve. Good correlation was achieved with the slopes of the trendlines between 0.95 and 1.02 and with R(2) between 0.77 and 1.0. Throughput was increased twofold by using a Cohesive multiplexing high-performance liquid chromatography system. The one-point IC(50) estimate is useful for initial compound screening, while the full concentration-response IC(50) method provides detailed CYP inhibition data for later stages of drug development.
9271779	Monitoring serum concentrations of clomipramine and metabolites: fluorescence polarization immunoassay versus high performance liquid chromatography.	This study compared fluorescence polarization immunoassay (FPIA) with a high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method from the point of view of their applicability to therapeutic drug monitoring of patients treated with clomipramine alone. Blood was withdrawn from 20 depressed inpatients (54 +/- 14 years) under steady state conditions. The FPIA determined total tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) concentrations with day to day variability below 11%. The automated HPLC method separated clomipramine, N-desmethylclomipramine, 8-hydroxyclomipramine and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine with interassay coefficients of variance below 12%. The concentrations measured by FPIA were similar to HPLC results. Total TCA concentrations measured by FPIA and the sum of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine measured by HPLC correlated significantly (r = 0.780 and p < 0.01). However, 40% of individual FPIA determinations yielded results that differed by more than 50% from the HPLC concentrations. Changes in clinical rates were related only to TCA serum concentrations that had been analyzed by HPLC. It is concluded that the semiquantitative FPIA is unsuitable for therapeutic drug monitoring in patients under clomipramine treatment, whereas the differential analysis of clomipramine and metabolites by HPLC is informative and can be used to improve the antidepressant drug treatment.
12433801	Involvement of CYP3A in the metabolism of eplerenone in humans and dogs: differential metabolism by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5.	In vitro studies were conducted to identify the major metabolites of eplerenone (EP) and the cytochrome p450 (p450) isozymes involved in its primary oxidative metabolism in humans and dogs. The major in vitro metabolites were identified as 6 beta-hydroxy EP and 21-hydroxy EP in both humans and dogs. EP was metabolized by cDNA-expressed human CYP3A4 and dog CYP3A12 but only minimally by human CYP3A5. In human microsomes, inhibition of total metabolism by the CYP3A-selective inhibitors ketoconazole, troleandomycin, and 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin, each at 10 micro M concentration, was 83 to 95%, whereas inhibition with inhibitors selective for other p450 isozymes was minimal. In dog liver microsomes, the percentages of inhibition were 53 to 76% with the CYP3A-selective inhibitors. A monoclonal anti-CYP3A4 antibody inhibited EP metabolism by 84%, whereas other monoclonal antibodies had minimal effects. The formation of 6 beta-hydroxy and 21-hydroxy metabolites in human liver microsomes was best correlated with CYP3A-selective dextromethorphan N-demethylation and testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation activities. EP moderately inhibited only CYP3A (testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylase) activity in human liver microsomes by 23, 34 and 45% at concentrations of 30, 100, and 300 micro M, respectively. With human microsomes, the V(max) and K(m) for 6 beta-hydroxylation and 21-hydroxylation were 0.973 nmol/min/mg and 217 micro M, and 0.143 nmol/min/mg and 211 micro M, respectively. The human hepatic clearance calculated from total in vitro EP metabolism was 2.30 ml/min/kg, which agrees with in vivo data. In conclusion, 6 beta- and 21-hydroxylation of EP is primarily catalyzed by CYP3A4 in humans and CYP3A12 in dogs. Also, it is unlikely that EP would substantially inhibit the metabolism of other drugs that are metabolized by CYP3A4 or other p450 isoforms.
15282406	Roles for epoxidation and detoxification of coumarin in determining species differences in clara cell toxicity.	Coumarin-induced mouse Clara cell toxicity is thought to result from the local formation of coumarin 3,4-epoxide (CE). However, this toxicity is not observed in the rat, indicating species differences in coumarin metabolism. The purpose of the present work was to characterize the in vitro kinetics of coumarin metabolism in mouse, rat, and human whole lung microsomes, and to determine whether species differences in coumarin-induced Clara cell toxicity correlate with coumarin epoxidation or detoxification. In B6C3F1 mouse lung microsomes, coumarin was metabolized to CE, which in the absence of glutathione spontaneously rearranges to o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (o-HPA). The K(m) and V(max) for o-HPA formation were 155 microM and 7.3 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. In contrast, the K(m) and V(max) were 2573 microM and 1.75 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively, in F344 rat lung microsomes. Since the intrinsic clearance through the epoxidation pathway was 69 times higher in the mouse, the epoxidation rate was shown to correlate with species sensitivity to toxicity. To determine whether detoxification reactions contribute to species differences in toxicity, the fate of CE and o-HPA were examined. Detoxification of CE via conjugation with glutathione was evaluated in lung cytosol from mice and rats, and the K(m) of this reaction was approximately 800 microM in both species, whereas the V(max) was 3.5 and 6 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively, indicating that conjugation is faster in the rat. Oxidation of o-HPA to o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (o-HPAA) was examined in lung cytosol from mice and rats. The K(m) of this reaction was approximately 1.5 microM in both species, whereas the V(max) was 0.08 and 0.33 nmol/min/mg protein in mice and rats, respectively, indicating that oxidation is faster in the rat. While the rate of epoxidation correlates with species sensitivity to coumarin, it is likely that Clara cell toxicity is modulated by CE and o-HPA detoxification. In contrast to rodent lung microsomes, bioactivation of coumarin to o-HPA did not occur in 16 different human lung microsomes, which suggests metabolism-dependent toxicity in the human lung is unlikely following low level coumarin exposure.
12756209	The effect of incubation conditions on the enzyme kinetics of udp-glucuronosyltransferases.	Traditionally, the Michaelis-Menten equation has been used to determine kinetic parameters for in vitro glucuronidation assays. Recently, estradiol-3-glucuronide formation was shown to exhibit non-Michaelis-Menten kinetics consistent with autoactivation. A concern with the observation of nontraditional kinetics is that they may result as an artifact of the incubation conditions. To examine this concern, the formation of estradiol-3-glucuronide was investigated using human liver microsomes prepared by two different methods, a range of assay conditions, and activation by alamethecin, sonication, or Brij 58 (polyoxyethylene monocetyl ether). Interestingly, holding the other assay components constant, estradiol-3-glucuronide formation was up to 2.5-fold greater using microsomes prepared in phosphate buffer compared with those prepared in sucrose. Incubations activated by alamethecin consistently exhibited the highest rates of estradiol glucuronidation versus the other activators. Furthermore, estradiol-3-glucuronidation exhibited autoactivation kinetics in all of the conditions investigated (n = 1.2-1.7). Nontraditional kinetics were also observed when other UGT1A1 substrates such as ethinylestradiol, buprenorphine, and anthraflavic acid were studied with both human liver microsomes and recombinant UGT1A1. Naphthol, propofol, morphine, and androstanediol were used as probe UGT substrates selective for UGT1A6, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, and UGT2B15, respectively. Of these substrates, only androstanediol exhibited nontraditional kinetics using human liver microsomes. In conclusion, the Hill and/or Michaelis-Menten equations should be used to fit kinetic data to obtain an accurate assessment of in vitro glucuronidation.
17195945	Pharmacokinetic and safety study of weekly irinotecan and oral capecitabine in patients with advanced solid cancers.	Capecitabine and irinotecan have demonstrated in vitro synergistic anti-cancer activity, and both are substrates for carboxyl esterases (CES). We conducted a study to identify a safe dose and potential drug-drug interactions of this combination. This was an open-label phase I dose escalation trial. Irinotecan was given as a 30 min infusion on days 1 and 8, and capecitabine on days 1-14 of a 21-day cycle. Plasma for pharmacokinetic analyses was drawn on days 1 and 8. Forty-seven patients with advanced solid tumors received 202 cycles of chemotherapy in 6 dose cohorts. At the highest dose tested, 1 of 3 patients developed fatal neutropenia and gram-negative sepsis. At dose level 5 (100/2000), 2 of 28 patients developed cycle 1 DLT-grade 3 diarrhea/vomiting, and grade 3 diarrhea. Responses were observed in 9 of 35 (5 of 9 ovarian cancer) evaluable patients. The AUC((0-last)) of irinotecan, SN-38G, and APC were similar on days 1 and 8. However, SN-38 T(max) was longer on Day 8 (0.88 h vs. 1.23 h, p = 0.012). While SN-38 AUC((0-last)) was lower on day 8 by 35%, this was not statistically significant (p = 0.123). Capecitabine results in a significantly delayed conversion of irinotecan to SN-38, suggesting drug-drug interaction at the level of CES. This suggests caution should be used when irinotecan is combined with substrates of CES, and warrants further study. The combination of irinotecan and capecitabine is safe and well tolerated at 100/2000, and warrants further evaluation in ovarian and breast cancer.
18407675	Assessment of the metabolism and intrinsic reactivity of a novel catechol metabolite.	PH-302 ( 1) demonstrates potent inhibitory activity against the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). The primary metabolite of PH-302 is a catechol ( 2) resulting from oxidative demethylenation of the methylenedioxyphenyl moiety by cytochrome P450 3A4. Concerns regarding subsequent two-electron oxidation of 2 to an electrophilic quinone species and the potential for resulting toxicity prompted additional studies to examine the reactivity and metabolic fate of this metabolite. Contrary to literature reports of catechol reactivity, 2 appeared to be resistant to quinone formation in human liver microsomal incubations, as determined by the lack of detectable glutathione (GSH) adducts and no covalent binding to microsomal proteins. In addition, 2 showed no evidence of depletion of intracellular glutathione or cytotoxicity at concentrations up to 1 mM in primary human and rat hepatocytes. In the presence of tyrosinase, spectral evidence indicated that 2 was oxidized to the ortho-quinone, and upon incubation in the presence of GSH, two conjugates were detected and characterized by LC/MS/MS. Lastly, the metabolic pathways of 2 were investigated in rat and human hepatocytes and found to be similar, proceeding via glucuronidation, sulfation, and methylation of the catechol. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that 2 appears to be resistant to further oxidation to quinone in liver microsomes, as well as spontaneous redox cycling, while the formation of phase II metabolites in hepatocytes suggests that multiple detoxication pathways may provide added protection against toxicity in the liver.
19477946	Disposition and metabolism of a novel prostanoid antiglaucoma medication, tafluprost, following ocular administration to rats.	The disposition and metabolism of tafluprost, an ester prodrug of the 15,15-difluoro-prostaglandin F(2alpha) antiglaucoma agent, have been studied in rats after ocular administration. Radioactivity was absorbed very rapidly into the eye and systemic circulation after a single ocular dose of 0.005% [(3)H]tafluprost ophthalmic solution, with maximum levels in plasma and most eye tissues occurring within 15 min. The absorption ratio of radioactivity was approximately 75%, suggesting the high availability of ocular administration of tafluprost. Approximately 10% of the dose was present in cornea at this time, and radioactivity concentrations in this tissue exceeded those in aqueous humor and iris/ciliary body throughout the 24-h study period. After repeated daily ocular doses, radioactivity levels remained greatest in cornea, followed by iris/ciliary body that replaced aqueous humor as the eye tissue containing the second highest radioactivity concentration. In female rats, radioactivity was excreted equally between urine and feces after a single ocular dose, whereas in male rats more was excreted in feces, reflecting the greater biliary excretion in males rats (50% dose) compared with females rats (33% dose). Tafluprost was extensively metabolized in the rat, such that intact prodrug was not detected in plasma, tissues, or excreta by radio-high-performance liquid chromatography. On the other hand, the active moiety, tafluprost acid, was the only noteworthy radioactive component in cornea, aqueous humor, and iris/ciliary body for at least 8 h after the ocular dose, and it was also a major plasma metabolite in early time points. The gender differences in conjugation reactions resulted in the differences in the excretion.
11334349	Determination of opipramol in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography with photometric detection using a cyanopropyl column.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method is described for the determination of opipramol in human plasma. Opipramol was extracted into tert.-butylmethyl ether, separated on a cyanopropyl silica column and detected at 254 nm. Imipramine was used as internal standard. The limit of quantitation was 250 pg/ml using 1.5 ml plasma. Precision was better than 9%, inaccuracy less than 8%. The assay is more sensitive than previously published methods, and it has been applied to the analysis of plasma samples from a pharmacokinetic study.
14729637	Use of replication-conditional adenovirus as a helper system to enhance delivery of P450 prodrug-activation genes for cancer therapy.	Cytochrome P450 (CYP) gene transfer sensitizes tumor xenografts to anticancer prodrugs such as cyclophosphamide (CPA) without a detectable increase in host toxicity. Optimal prodrug activation is achieved when a suitable P450 gene (e.g., human CYP2B6) is delivered in combination with NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase (P450R), which encodes the flavoenzyme P450 reductase. We sought to improve this gene therapy by coordinated delivery and expression of P450 and P450R on a single bicistronic vector using an internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) sequence. Retrovirus encoding a CYP2B6-IRES-P450R expression cassette was shown to induce strong P450-dependent CPA cytotoxicity in a population of infected 9L gliosarcoma cells. Adeno-P450, a replication-defective, E1/E3 region-deleted adenovirus engineered to express CYP2B6-IRES-P450R, induced intracellular CPA 4-hydroxylation, and CPA cytotoxicity, in a broad range of human cancer cell lines. However, limited Adeno-P450 gene transfer and CPA chemosensitization was seen with certain human tumor cells, notably PC-3 prostate and HT-29 colon cancer cells. Remarkable improvements could be obtained by coinfecting the tumor cells with Adeno-P450 in combination with Onyx-017, an E1b-55k gene-deleted adenovirus that selectively replicates in p53 pathway-deficient cells. Substantial increases in gene expression were observed during the early stages of viral infection, reflecting an apparent coamplification of the Adeno-P450 genome, followed by enhanced viral spread at later stages, as demonstrated in cultured tumor cells, and in A549 and PC-3 solid tumor xenografts grown in scid mice. This combination of the replication-defective Adeno-P450 with a replication-conditional and tumor cell-targeted helper adenovirus dramatically improved the low gene transfer observed with some human tumor cell lines and correspondingly increased tumor cell-catalyzed CPA 4-hydroxylation, CPA cytotoxicity, and in vivo antitumor activity in a PC-3 tumor xenograft model. The use of tumor-selective, replicating adenovirus to promote the spread of replication-defective gene therapy vectors, such as Adeno-P450, substantially increases the therapeutic potential of adenoviral delivery systems, and should lead to increased activity and enhanced tumor selectivity of cytochrome P450 and other gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapies.
19007513	A simple gas chromatography-mass spectrometry procedure for the simultaneous determination of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in human urine.	With the increasing use of buprenorphine in treatment of opiate addiction and pain management, it is important that laboratories be able to assess patient compliance. The presented procedure is simple, efficient, and employs gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) technology available to most laboratories. The specimen is hydrolyzed with beta-glucuronidase prior to liquid-liquid extraction at a basic pH. The evaporated extract is derivatized to form the tertiary-butyl-dimethyl-silyl derivatives of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine prior to analysis by GC-MS in the electron impact mode. Confirmation of the analytes is based on comparing the ion abundance ratios of the analytes to those of a contemporaneously analyzed standard. The qualitative ion abundance ratios are required to be within 20% of those of the standard for acceptance. Quantification is based on the ion ratios of the analytes to those of their corresponding deuterated analogues. Linearity was obtained for buprenorphine in the range of 1 to 2000 microg/L with a correlation coefficient (R) exceeding 0.999 and for norbuprenorphine from 1 to 1000 microg/L with R exceeding 0.997. Percent recoveries for the buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were 71% and 75%, respectively. It was found that the recovery of norbuprenorphine could be enhanced to 100% by a simple "salting-out" modification to the procedure.
22653299	Excretion and metabolism of milnacipran in humans after oral administration of milnacipran hydrochloride.	The pharmacokinetics, excretion, and metabolism of milnacipran were evaluated after oral administration of a 100-mg dose of [C]milnacipran hydrochloride to healthy male subjects. The peak plasma concentration of unchanged milnacipran (240 ng/ml) was attained at 3.5 h and was lower than the peak plasma concentration of radioactivity (679 ng Eq of milnacipran/ml) observed at 4.3 h, indicating substantial metabolism of milnacipran upon oral administration. Milnacipran has two chiral centers and is a racemic mixture of cis isomers: d-milnacipran (1S, 2R) and l-milnacipran (1R, 2S). After oral administration, the radioactivity of almost the entire dose was excreted rapidly in urine (approximately 93% of the dose). Approximately 55% of the dose was excreted in urine as unchanged milnacipran, which contained a slightly higher proportion of d-milnacipran (31% of the dose). In addition to the excretion of milnacipran carbamoyl O-glucuronide metabolite in urine (19% of the dose), predominantly as the l-milnacipran carbamoyl O-glucuronide metabolite (17% of the dose), approximately 8% of the dose was excreted in urine as the N-desethyl milnacipran metabolite. No additional metabolites of significant quantity were excreted in urine. Similar plasma concentrations of milnacipran and the l-milnacipran carbamoyl O-glucuronide metabolite were observed after dosing, and the maximum plasma concentration of l-milnacipran carbamoyl O-glucuronide metabolite at 4 h after dosing was 234 ng Eq of milnacipran/ml. Lower plasma concentrations (<25 ng Eq of milnacipran/ml) of N-desethyl milnacipran and d-milnacipran carbamoyl O-glucuronide metabolites were observed.
23282066	Evaluation of animal models for intestinal first-pass metabolism of drug candidates to be metabolized by CYP3A enzymes via in vivo and in vitro oxidation of midazolam and triazolam.	1. To search an appropriate evaluation methodology for the intestinal first-pass metabolism of new drug candidates, grapefruit juice (GFJ)- and vehicle (tap water)-pretreated mice or rats were orally administered midazolam (MDZ) or triazolam (TRZ), and blood levels of the parent compounds and their metabolites were measured by liquid chromatography/MS/MS. A significant effect of GFJ to elevate the blood levels was observed only for TRZ in mice. 2. In vitro experiments using mouse, rat and human intestinal and hepatic microsomal fractions demonstrated that GFJ suppressed the intestinal microsomal oxidation of MDZ and especially TRZ. Substrate inhibition by MDZ caused reduction in 1'-hydroxylation but not 4-hydroxylation in both intestinal and hepatic microsomal fractions. The kinetic profiles of MDZ oxidation and the substrate inhibition in mouse intestinal and hepatic microsomal fractions were very similar to those in human microsomes but were different from those in rat microsomes. Furthermore, MDZ caused mechanism-based inactivation of cytochrome P450 3A-dependent TRZ 1'-hydroxylation in mouse, rat and human intestinal microsomes with similar potencies. 3. These results are useful information in the analysis of data obtained in mouse and rat for the evaluation of first-pass effects of drug candidates to be metabolized by CYP3A enzymes.
19480558	Predictability of intranasal pharmacokinetics in man using pre-clinical pharmacokinetic data with a dopamine 3 receptor agonist, PF-219061.	(R)-3-(4-propylmorpholin-2-yl) phenol (PF-219061) is a potent, selective agonist of the dopamine 3 receptor for the treatment of female sexual dysfunction. In vivo, PF-219061 exhibits liver blood flow clearance in both rat and dog. Oral bioavailability was 0.7% in dog and less than 5% in rat. Intranasal dosing was investigated to improve bioavailability. Pre-clinical assessments in rat and dog demonstrated intranasal bioavailabilities of 16-38% in rat and 54-61% in dog with very rapid absorption. It was predicted that an intranasal dose in man would give approximately 25-50% bioavailability. The clinical data verified the preclinical predictions demonstrating rapid absorption and approximately dose-proportional increases in exposure. The intranasal bioavailability in man was estimated to be 26-38%. These findings indicate the potential utility of intranasal dosing as a route that circumvents the first-pass effects for PF-219061 resulting in high exposures.
7801739	Effects of the antidepressant drug viloxazine on oxcarbazepine and its hydroxylated metabolites in patients with epilepsy.	The effects of Viloxazine (VLX, 100 mg b.i.d. for 10 days) on the steady-state plasma concentrations of Oxcarbazepine (OXC), its active metabolite 10, 11-dihydro-10-hydroxy-carbazepine (MHD) and the corresponding diol (DHD) were studied in a randomized, double-blind cross-over placebo-controlled trial in 6 epileptic patients stabilized on a fixed dosage of OXC. Administration of VLX resulted in an 11% increase in the plasma concentration of MHD (p = 0.003) associated with a 31% fall in DHD levels (p = 0.0001). Plasma concentrations of unchanged OXC were unaffected by VLX. No changes in seizure frequency nor signs of drug toxicity were observed during the study. Although VLX may inhibit the conversion of MHD to the inactive diol, the interaction is unlikely to be of clinical significance.
11879354	Transplacental passage of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in vivo.	The purpose of this study was to investigate human fetal exposure to oxcarbazepine (OCBZ) in vivo. Transplacental passage and placental tissue concentrations of OCBZ and its metabolites were determined. Maternal venous blood, cord blood, and placental tissue samples from 12 mothers using OCBZ during pregnancy alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs were collected. Samples were analyzed with high-performance liquid chromatography. Maternal venous concentrations of OCBZ and its major metabolites were at same range as cord blood concentrations (OCBZ in maternal serum, 0.19 +/- 0.16 microg/ml, and in cord serum, 0.21 +/- 0.19 microg/ml; 10-hydroxy-10,11-dihydrocarbamazepine (10-OH-CBZ) in maternal serum, 5.69 +/- 2.49 microg/ml, and in cord serum, 5.23 +/- 1.44 microg/ml; 10,11-trans-dihydroxy-10,11-dihydrocarbamazepine (10,11-D) in maternal serum, 0.29 +/- 0.22 microg/ml, and in cord serum, 0.28 +/- 0.14 microg/ml). OCBZ (0.17 +/- 0.16 microg/g placental tissue), 10-OH-CBZ (3.49 +/- 1.34 microg/g placental tissue) and 10,11-D (0.25 +/- 0.11 microg/g placental tissue) were detected in the placental tissue. The amount of OCBZ detected from placental tissue was 0.01% of the daily dose. OCBZ, like other antiepileptic drugs, is transferred significantly through the placenta in humans.
8730919	Inhibition of cyclosporine and tetrahydrocannabinol metabolism by cannabidiol in mouse and human microsomes.	1. The in vitro and in vivo effects of cannabidiol on mouse and human liver microsomal metabolism of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine and the psychoactive compound tetrahydrocannabinol have been examined. 2. Preincubation of mouse or human liver microsomes with cannabidiol decreased the formation of all detectable cyclosporine metabolites by 73-89%. 3. In vivo cannabidiol treatment of mouse similarly decreased the formation of all detectable cyclosporine metabolites by 60-86%. 4. Preincubation of human liver microsomes with cannabidiol selectively decreased the formation of tetrahydrocannabinol metabolites catalyzed by cytochrome P4503A by 60% but had no effect on P4502C9-catalyzed metabolites. 5. Cannabidiol has the potential to clinically affect cyclosporine metabolism which may result in increased cyclosporine blood levels and an increase in its toxic side effects, and likewise may also affect tetrahydrocannabinol and its metabolite levels in man.
20732837	Enantioselective determination of doxazosin in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using ovomucoid chiral stationary phase.	An enantioselective and sensitive method was developed and validated for determination of doxazosin enantiomers in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The enantiomers of doxazosin were extracted from plasma using ethyl ether/dichloromethane (3/2, v/v) under alkaline conditions. Baseline chiral separation was obtained within 9 min on an ovomucoid column using an isocratic mobile phase of methanol/5mM ammonium acetate/formic acid (20/80/0.016, v/v/v) at a flow rate of 0.60 mL/min. Acquisition of mass spectrometric data was performed in multiple reaction monitoring mode, using the transitions of m/z 452-->344 for doxazosin enantiomers, and m/z 384-->247 for prazosin (internal standard). The method was linear in the concentration range of 0.100-50.0 ng/mL for each enantiomer using 200 microL of plasma. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) for each enantiomer was 0.100 ng/mL. The intra- and inter-assay precision was 5.0-11.1% and 5.7-7.6% for R-(-)-doxazosin and S-(+)-doxazosin, respectively. The accuracy was 97.4-99.5% for R-(-)-doxazosin and 96.8-102.8% for S-(+)-doxazosin. No chiral inversion was observed during the plasma storage, preparation and analysis. The method proved adequate for enantioselective pharmacokinetic studies of doxazosin after oral administration of therapeutic doses of racemic doxazosin.
9127697	Determination of trazodone and its metabolite, 1-m-chlorophenyl-piperazine, in human plasma and red blood cell samples by HPLC.	To develop an HPLC method for the analysis of trazodone and its metabolite, 1-m-chlorophenyl-piperazine (m-CPP), in human plasma and red blood cells. The analytes were extracted by heptane containing 1.5% isoamyl alcohol, back extracted into phosphoric acid and analyzed by reverse phase HPLC with UV detection. In seven randomly selected, male, human subjects plasma concentrations (nmol/l) were 380-5841 for trazodone and 14-237 for m-CPP while those in packed red blood cells were 98-634 for trazodone and 15-155 for m-CPP. Plasma trazodone concentrations were 4-11-fold higher than those in red blood cells while those of m-CPP were about equal. This may be the first report on concentrations of trazodone and m-CPP in human red blood cells. This sensitive method can be used for monitoring trazodone and m-CPP in human plasma and red blood cells.
19082582	Microwave-assisted extraction: a simpler and faster method for the determination of ethyl glucuronide in hair by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Alcohol is the most frequently abused "addictive substance" that causes serious social problems throughout the world; thus, alcoholism is of particular interest in clinical and forensic medicine. Alcohol biomarkers are physiological indicators of alcohol exposure or ingestion and may reflect the presence of an alcohol use disorder. The glucuronide conjugation is a minor pathway of ethanol metabolism. Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a marker of recent alcohol consumption that detects alcohol use reliably over a definite time period. The present paper describes a new method for the determination of EtG in hair. It is based both in the microwave-assisted extraction (MAE), to extract the analyte from hair samples, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), to identify and quantify the EtG in selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The method was applied to 15 hair samples from occasional alcohol users, obtaining positive results in all cases. It was fully validated, including a linear range (0.3-10 ng/mg) and the main precision parameters. In summary, the use of microwave-assisted extraction turned out to be a substantially simpler, faster, and a more sensitive procedure than any other conventional sample preparations.
23090647	Pharmacologic properties, metabolism, and disposition of linaclotide, a novel therapeutic peptide approved for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and chronic idiopathic constipation.	Linaclotide, a potent guanylate cyclase C agonist, is a therapeutic peptide approved in the United States for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and chronic idiopathic constipation. We present for the first time the metabolism, degradation, and disposition of linaclotide in animals and humans. We examined the metabolic stability of linaclotide in conditions that mimic the gastrointestinal tract and characterized the metabolite MM-419447 (CCEYCCNPACTGC), which contributes to the pharmacologic effects of linaclotide. Systemic exposure to these active peptides is low in rats and humans, and the low systemic and portal vein concentrations of linaclotide and MM-419447 observed in the rat confirmed both peptides are minimally absorbed after oral administration. Linaclotide is stable in the acidic environment of the stomach and is converted to MM-419447 in the small intestine. The disulfide bonds of both peptides are reduced in the small intestine, where they are subsequently proteolyzed and degraded. After oral administration of linaclotide, <1% of the dose was excreted as active peptide in rat feces and a mean of 3-5% in human feces; in both cases MM-419447 was the predominant peptide recovered. MM-419447 exhibits high-affinity binding in vitro to T84 cells, resulting in a significant, concentration-dependent accumulation of intracellular cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP). In rat models of gastrointestinal function, orally dosed MM-419447 significantly increased fluid secretion into small intestinal loops, increased intraluminal cGMP, and caused a dose-dependent acceleration in gastrointestinal transit. These results demonstrate the importance of the active metabolite in contributing to linaclotide's pharmacology.
15764716	Metabolism of the cardioprotective drug dexrazoxane and one of its metabolites by isolated rat myocytes, hepatocytes, and blood.	The metabolism of the antioxidant cardioprotective agent dexrazoxane (ICRF-187) and one of its one-ring open metabolites to its active metal ion binding form N,N'-[(1S)-1-methyl-1,2-ethanediyl-]bis[(N-(2-amino-2-oxoethyl)]glycine (ADR-925) has been investigated in neonatal rat myocyte and adult rat hepatocyte suspensions, and in human and rat blood and plasma with a view to characterizing their hydrolysis-activation. Dexrazoxane is clinically used to reduce the iron-based oxygen free radical-mediated cardiotoxicity of the anticancer drug doxorubicin. Dexrazoxane may act through its hydrolysis product ADR-925 by removing iron from the iron-doxorubicin complex, or binding free iron, thus preventing oxygen radical formation. Our results indicate that dexrazoxane underwent partial uptake and/or hydrolysis by myocytes. A one-ring open metabolite of dexrazoxane underwent nearly complete dihydroorotase-catalyzed metabolism in a myocyte suspension. Hepatocytes that contain both dihydropyrimidinase and dihydroorotase completely hydrolyzed dexrazoxane to ADR-925 and released it into the extracellular medium. Thus, in hepatocytes, the two liver enzymes acted in concert, and sequentially, on dexrazoxane, first to produce the two ring-opened metabolites, and then to produce the metabolite ADR-925. We also showed that the hydrolysis of one of these metabolites was promoted by Ca2+ and Mg2+ in plasma, and thus, further metabolism of these intermediates likely occurs in the plasma after they are released from the liver and kidney. In conclusion, these studies provide a nearly complete description of the metabolism of dexrazoxane by myocytes and hepatocytes to its presumably active form, ADR-925.
20308471	Role of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms in 13-cis retinoic acid metabolism in humans.	13-cis Retinoic acid (13cisRA, isotretinoin) is an important drug in both dermatology, and the treatment of high-risk neuroblastoma. 13cisRA is known to undergo cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation, mainly by CYP2C8, but phase II metabolic pathways have not been characterized. In the present study, the glucuronidation activities of human liver (HLM) and intestinal microsomes (HIM), as well as a panel of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) toward both 13cisRA and the 4-oxo metabolite, 4-oxo 13cisRA, were compared using high-performance liquid chromatography. Both HLM and, to a greater extent, HIM catalyzed the glucuronidation of 13cisRA and 4-oxo 13cisRA. Based on the structures of 13cisRA and 4-oxo 13cisRA, the glucuronides formed are conjugated at the terminal carboxylic acid. Further analysis revealed that UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, and UGT1A9 were the major isoforms responsible for the glucuronidation of both substrates. For 13cisRA, a pronounced substrate inhibition was observed with individual UGTs and with HIM. UGT1A3 exhibited the highest rate of activity toward both substrates, and a high rate of activity toward 13cisRA glucuronidation was also observed with UGT1A7. However, for both substrates, K(m) values were above concentrations reported in clinical studies. Therefore, UGT1A9 is likely to be the most important enzyme in the glucuronidation of both substrates as this enzyme had the lowest K(m) and is expressed in both the intestine and at high levels in the liver.
22190693	Deuterium isotope effects on drug pharmacokinetics. I. System-dependent effects of specific deuteration with aldehyde oxidase cleared drugs.	The pharmacokinetic properties of drugs may be altered by kinetic deuterium isotope effects. With specifically deuterated model substrates and drugs metabolized by aldehyde oxidase, we demonstrate how knowledge of the enzyme's reaction mechanism, species differences in the role played by other enzymes in a drug's metabolic clearance, and differences in systemic clearance mechanisms are critically important for the pharmacokinetic application of deuterium isotope effects. Ex vivo methods to project the in vivo outcome using deuterated carbazeran and zoniporide with hepatic systems demonstrate the importance of establishing the extent to which other metabolic enzymes contribute to the metabolic clearance mechanism. Differences in pharmacokinetic outcomes in guinea pig and rat, with the same metabolic clearance mechanism, show how species differences in the systemic clearance mechanism can affect the in vivo outcome. Overall, to gain from the application of deuteration as a strategy to alter drug pharmacokinetics, these studies demonstrate the importance of understanding the systemic clearance mechanism and knowing the identity of the metabolic enzymes involved, the extent to which they contribute to metabolic clearance, and the extent to which metabolism contributes to the systemic clearance.
15895470	Hair analysis by GC/MS/MS to verify abuse of drugs.	Because of its peculiar characteristics, hair analysis provides a way of obtaining information that cannot be acquired by other commonly used forensic medical analyses, such as blood or urine analysis. In the keratin matrix many xenobiotics are incorporated permanently, in contrast to the situation with blood or urine where they are generally only detectable for a few hours or days. Therefore hair analysis should be the method of choice in the clinical and forensic toxicology field when the assessment of repeated or chronic exposure to a drug is required, e.g. in the case of criminal responsibility, revocation/restoration of a driving licence or in workplace testing. Some factors that can affect the concentrations of drugs in hair, such as passive contamination, age, ethnicity and cosmetic treatment, must be considered. Analytical methodology is also very important: GC/MS/MS has proved to be a highly sensitive and specific technique for the detection of very low concentrations of such drugs in hair. In this study five cases of the application of hair analyses using this technique for the determination of abused drugs (opiates, cocaine, amphetamine, anabolic steroids) are described.
17427179	Inhibition of fipronil and nonane metabolism in human liver microsomes and human cytochrome P450 isoforms by chlorpyrifos.	Previous studies have established that chlorpyrifos (CPS), fipronil, and nonane can all be metabolized by human liver microsomes (HLM) and a number of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. However, metabolic interactions between these three substrates have not been described. In this study the effect of either coincubation or preincubation of CPS with HLM or CYP isoforms with either fipronil or nonane as substrate was investigated. In both co- and preincubation experiments, CPS significantly inhibited the metabolism of fipronil or nonane by HLM although CPS inhibited the metabolism of fipronil more effectively than that of nonane. CPS significantly inhibited the metabolism of fipronil by CYP3A4 as well as the metabolism of nonane by CYP2B6. In both cases, preincubation with CPS caused greater inhibition than coincubation, suggesting that the inhibition is mechanism based.
19460943	Metabolite profiling of hydroxycinnamate derivatives in plasma and urine after the ingestion of coffee by humans: identification of biomarkers of coffee consumption.	Human subjects drank coffee containing 412 mumol of chlorogenic acids, and plasma and urine were collected 0 to 24 h after ingestion and were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Within 1 h, some of the components in the coffee reached nanomole peak plasma concentrations (C(max)), whereas chlorogenic acid metabolites, including caffeic acid-3-O-sulfate and ferulic acid-4-O-sulfate and sulfates of 3- and 4-caffeoylquinic acid lactones, had higher C(max) values. The short time to reach C(max) (T(max)) indicates absorption of these compounds in the small intestine. In contrast, dihydroferulic acid, its 4-O-sulfate, and dihydrocaffeic acid-3-O-sulfate exhibited much higher C(max) values (145-385 nM) with T(max) values in excess of 4 h, indicating absorption in the large intestine and the probable involvement of catabolism by colonic bacteria. These three compounds, along with ferulic acid-4-O-sulfate and dihydroferulic acid-4-O-glucuronide, were also major components to be excreted in urine (8.4-37.1 mumol) after coffee intake. Feruloylglycine, which is not detected in plasma, was also a major urinary component (20.7 mumol excreted). Other compounds, not accumulating in plasma but excreted in smaller quantities, included the 3-O-sulfate and 3-O-glucuronide of isoferulic acid, dihydro(iso)ferulic acid-3-O-glucuronide, and dihydrocaffeic acid-3-O-glucuronide. Overall, the 119.9 mumol excretion of the chlorogenic acid metabolites corresponded to 29.1% of intake, indicating that as well as being subject to extensive metabolism, chlorogenic acids in coffee are well absorbed. Pathways for the formation of the various metabolites within the body are proposed. Urinary dihydrocaffeic acid-3-O-sulfate and feruloylglycine are potentially very sensitive biomarkers for the consumption of relatively small amounts of coffee.
760598	Volatile metabolites and decomposition products of halothane in man.	The presence of two volatile halothane metabolites, 2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane (CF3CH2Cl) and 2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethylene (CF2CHCl), and a metabolite-decomposition product, 2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethylene (CF2CBrCl), were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in exhaled gases of 16 patients anesthetized with halothane in nonrebreathing, semiclosed and totally closed anesthesia circuits. No significant differences in concentrations of CF3CH2Cl and CF2CHCl were found relative to the anesthesia circuits used. CF2CBrCl could not be identified in the expired gases of patients anesthetized with a nonrebreathing circuit (Bain), but was present in gases recovered from both semiclosed and totally closed circuits. Under totally closed-circuit rebreathing conditions, the concentration of CF2CBrCl increased to 4-5 ppm, indicating significant breakdown of halothane by the soda lime. Possible pathways for formation of the two metabolites and the metabolite-decomposition product are presented, as well as clinical implications of these findings.
12520631	Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a novel nizatidine controlled-release formulation in healthy subjects.	The pharmacokinetics and intragastric pH effects of a novel nizatidine controlled-release (CR) formulation were compared to a currently marketed immediate-release (IR) nizatidine formulation (Axid). The bimodal pulsatile release characteristics of nizatidine CR decreased its Cmax by approximately 42% compared to nizatidine IR while maintaining 90% relative bioavailability; tmax was approximately 1.6 times longer with the CR formulation. These characteristics enabled controlled-release nizatidine to sustain effective plasma drug concentrations for a greater duration than immediate-release nizatidine over the dosing intervals. In multiple doses, the 24-hour AUC ratio for all comparisons of nizatidine CR 150 mg bid, nizatidine CR 300 mg daily, and nizatidine IR 150 mg bid was between 97% and 99%. Mean pH AUC values for nizatidine CR 150 mg bid and nizatidine IR 150 mg bid were similar overall during the 0- to 14-hour and 14- to 24-hour dosing intervals. For the 14- to 24-hour dosing interval, nizatidine CR 150 mg maintained gastric pH over 3.0 and 4.0 for 42% and 27% of the time compared to 39% and 23% for nizatidine IR, respectively. Nizatidine CR 300 mg, compared to the 150-mg CR and IR regimens, had a greater effect on increasing evening intragastric pH, thus providing support for the potential utility of nizatidine CR 300 mg dosed at night in alleviating nocturnal symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease.
17965519	Pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole, a new antipsychotic, following oral dosing in healthy adult Japanese volunteers: influence of CYP2D6 polymorphism.	We investigated the pharmacokinetics (PK) of aripiprazole, a newly developed antipsychotic, and its active metabolite in healthy Japanese, and the influence of CYP2D6 polymorphism on the PK of aripiprazole. Following a single oral 6 mg dose, the mean C(max), t(max), and t(1/2, z) (terminal phase half life) of aripiprazole were 31.0 ng/mL, 3.6 hr, and 61.0 hr, respectively. The t(1/2, z) in CYP2D6 IM subjects (75.2 hr) was significantly (p<0.01) longer than that in CYP2D6 EM subjects (45.8 hr), and the systemic clearance of IM subjects was approximately 60% that of EM subjects. The PK in one subject with the CYP2D6*41 homozygote was similar to that of IM subjects. In repeated oral administration, plasma concentrations of aripiprazole and active metabolite both reached a steady state by Day 14. The half-life of aripiprazole following repeated administration was similar to that following single administration, suggesting that pharmacokinetics was constant during 14-day administration. Our investigations revealed that there is no clear ethnic difference between Japanese and Western subjects in terms of mean plasma PK, while the CYP2D6*10 allele distinctive to Asian populations influences the PK of aripiprazole. Moreover, our observations suggest that the CYP2D6*41 allele significantly affects drug-metabolizing activity.
16167835	Zafirlukast metabolism by cytochrome P450 3A4 produces an electrophilic alpha,beta-unsaturated iminium species that results in the selective mechanism-based inactivation of the enzyme.	Zafirlukast is a leukotriene antagonist indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate asthma, but the drug has been associated with occasional idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. Structurally, zafirlukast is similar to 3-methylindole because it contains an N-methylindole moiety that has a 3-alkyl substituent on the indole ring. The results presented here describe the metabolic activation of zafirlukast via a similar mechanism to that described for 3-methylindole. NADP(H)-dependent biotransformation of zafirlukast by hepatic microsomes from rats and humans afforded a reactive metabolite, which was detected as its GSH adduct. Mass spectrometry and NMR data indicated that the GSH adduct was formed by the addition of GSH to the methylene carbon between the indole- and methoxy-substituted phenyl rings of zafirlukast. The formation of this reactive metabolite in human liver microsomes was shown to be exclusively catalyzed by CYP3A enzymes. Evidence for in vivo metabolic activation of zafirlukast was obtained when the same GSH adduct was detected in bile of rats given an iv or oral dose of the drug. On the basis of results with model peroxidases and of the structures of product alcohols from incubations containing H2(18)O, it appeared that zafirlukast underwent dehydrogenation by two sequential one-electron oxidations. In addition, zafirlukast proved to be a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity in human liver microsomes and in microsomes containing cDNA-expressed CYP3A4. The enzyme inhibitory property of zafirlukast was selective for this enzyme among all of the P450 enzymes that were tested in human liver microsomes. The inactivation was characterized by a K(I) of 13.4 microM and k(inact) of 0.026 min(-1). In summary, zafirlukast dehydrogenation to an electrophilic alpha,beta-unsaturated iminium intermediate may be associated with idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity and/or cause drug-drug interactions through inactivation of CYP3A4.
19562329	Effect of ritonavir on the pharmacokinetics of the benzimidazoles albendazole and mebendazole: an interaction study in healthy volunteers.	Benzimidazoles are often used concomitantly with protease inhibitors in patients with helminthic disease and HIV infection. Low bioavailability and extensive first-pass metabolism make benzimidazoles prone to pharmacokinetic drug interactions. The aim of the present study was to investigate potential drug interactions between the benzimidazoles albendazole and mebendazole and the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir. Sixteen healthy volunteers were administered a single oral dose of 1,000 mg mebendazole or 400 mg albendazole (2 x n = 8). AUC, C(max), and t(1/2) of mebendazole, albendazole, and albendazole sulfoxide were studied in absence and after short-term (2 doses) and long-term (8 days) treatment with ritonavir 200 mg bid. Pharmacokinetic parameters of albendazole and mebendazole were not changed by short-term administration of ritonavir. However, long-term administration of ritonavir resulted in significant changes in albendazole and mebendazole disposition, with a significant decrease in AUC(0-24) (27 and 43% of baseline for albendazole and mebendazole, respectively) and C(max) (26 and 41% of baseline, respectively). The AUC(0-24) of benzimidazoles decreased after long-term use of ritonavir, while no changes in pharmacokinetic profiles were observed under short-term administration. These findings might help to optimize benzimidazole efficacy when used in combination with protease inhibitors.
7861750	Optimal enzymatic hydrolysis of urinary benzodiazepine conjugates.	Conditions for the enzymatic hydrolysis of benzodiazepine conjugates were systematically examined. Optimal recovery of the free drugs occurs when 1 mL of urine buffered to pH 4.5 is incubated with 5000 U of Helix pomatia beta-glucuronidase at 56 degrees C for 2 h. Urine specimens containing conjugates of temazepam, oxazepam, lorazepam, alpha-hydroxyalprazolam, 2-hydroxyethylflurazepam, and N-desalkyl-3-hydroxyflurazepam as targeted benzodiazepines were used. The freed drugs were quantitated by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
16803666	Comparison of the various opiate alkaloid contaminants and their metabolites found in illicit heroin with 6-monoacetyl morphine as indicators of heroin ingestion.	In this study the use of the various opiate alkaloid contaminants as potential markers for illicit heroin ingestion were investigated. Urine samples (n = 227) taken from prisoners for routine drug screen, which were positive for opiates by immunoassay screening, were analyzed for contaminants in illicit heroin. A previously described method was used for the analysis; urines were extracted using mixed-mode solid-phase extraction; the extracts were derivatized using N-methyl-bistrifluoroacetamide and N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyltrifluoroactamide/trimethylchlorosilane. The derivatized extracts were subjected to electron impact gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The extracts were injected in full scan mode followed by selected ion monitoring mode for target opiate alkaloids found as contaminants in illicit heroin. The opiate alkaloids and their metabolites specifically targeted included meconine, desmethylmeconine, hydrocotarnine, acetylcodeine, codeine, morphine, 6-monacetylmorphine (6-mam), papaverine, hydroxypapaverine, and dihydroxypapaverine. Of the 227 samples positive for opiates by immunoassay, using a cut-off of 300 ng/mL, 199 were confirmed positive for morphine and using a cut-off of 10 ng/mL, 28 were confirmed positive for 6-mam. Using the screening method described in the study, the following numbers of positives were found: 199 for morphine, 103 for codeine, 5 for meconine, 46 for desmethylmeconine, 18 for 6-mam, 136 for hydroxypapaverine, and 139 for dihydroxypapaverine. Acetylcodeine, hydrocotarnine, and papaverine were not detected in any of the samples. The results of this study show that analysis for papaverine metabolites is more sensitive than 6-mam as a way of demonstrating illicit heroin use.
19688720	Stability of cucurbitacin E in human plasma: chemical hydrolysis and role of plasma esterases.	It was shown previously that the anticancerous cytotoxic oxygenated triterpenes, cucurbitacin E (Cuc E) and its deacetylated form, cucurbitacin I (Cuc I), interacted differently with human serum albumin. In this study, the biochemical stability of Cuc E was investigated in vitro by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. The hydrolysis rate in acidic and alkaline solutions, and in enzymatic conditions in human plasma and in purified plasma esterase solutions of butyrylcholinesterase and albumin, was compared with that measured in phosphate buffer saline (pH 7.4). Cuc E hydrolysis was detected in all the in vitro tests, but the extent of hydrolysis varied according to the different enzymatic and non-enzymatic conditions. A remarkable rapid hydrolysis of Cuc E was detected in acidic and alkaline solutions. A significant rate of hydrolysis of Cuc E was monitored in human plasma and was associated with the detection of Cuc I. The stability of Cuc E was greatly enhanced in the presence of albumin. However, purified butyrylcholinesterase had no effect on Cuc E stability. Among specific inhibitors of plasma esterases, only EDTA increased Cuc E stability, suggesting that paraoxonase is the human plasma esterase involved in the hydrolysis of Cuc E.
12170122	The ethanol conjugate ethyl glucuronide is a useful marker of recent alcohol consumption.	Current biological state markers remain suboptimal with regard to sensitivity and specificity for monitoring alcohol consumption. The currently used state markers can be influenced by age, sex, and a variety of substances and non-alcohol-associated diseases and do not fully cover the time axis for alcohol intake. Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a promising, nonvolatile, water-soluble marker of recent alcohol consumption that is stable during storage and can be detected for an extended time period (up to 80 hr) after alcohol is completely eliminated from the body. In the WHO/ISBRA Study of State and Trait Markers of Alcohol Use and Dependence, EtG was determined in urine samples from 304 patients with an liquid chromotography, electrospray ionization double mass spectrometry (ESI-LC/MS-MS) method. Deuterium labeled EtG was used as internal standard. Determination limit was 0.1 mg/liter. All measurements were performed in duplicate. A calibration solution was measured after each 10 samples. The following significant correlations were found for the Spearman rank correlation for the total sample between EtG and other variables: sobriety in days (r = -0.6), 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (HTOL/HIAA) ratio (r = 0.58), ethanol level (r = 0.433), methanol level (r = 0.198), carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (r = 0.458), gamma-glutamyltransferase (r = 0.428), aspartate aminotransferase (r = 0.260), age (r = 0.264), and total grams of ethanol consumed in the previous month (r = 0.467). In a subsample of 277 subjects in whom no ethanol was detectable in urine, the following correlations with EtG levels were found: sobriety (days; r = -0.597), HTOL/HIAA ratio (r = 0.478), gamma-glutamyltransferase (r = 0.422), total grams of ethanol consumed last month (r = 0.395), and carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (r = 0.366; all significant at p < 0.05). When we compared results between EtG levels and the HTOL/HIAA ratio, 68.8% (n = 119) of those positive for EtG did not have elevated values for the HTOL/HIAA ratio. Thirty-one percent (31.2%) of these 119 subjects were positive for both parameters, but of those negative for EtG, only 4.4% had an elevated HTOL/HIAA ratio. EtG is a good candidate for a sensitive, specific, and reliable marker of recent alcohol intake. The complementary use of this marker with other biological state markers should significantly improve treatment outcome and therapy effectiveness and reduce costs.
19455620	No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic and safety interactions of ambrisentan in combination with tadalafil in healthy volunteers.	Ambrisentan is a nonsulfonamide, ET(A)-selective endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), and tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitor under investigation for treatment of PAH. Due to the potential combination use, the pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions between these two drugs were assessed in a crossover study in 26 healthy adults. Single-dose PK of ambrisentan (10 mg) and its metabolite, 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan, were determined in the absence and presence of multiple doses of tadalafil (40 mg QD). Similarly, single-dose PK of tadalafil (40 mg) were evaluated in the absence and presence of multiple doses of ambrisentan (10 mg QD). In the presence of tadalafil, ambrisentan maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) was similar (105.0% [90% CI: 95.9-115.0%]) and systemic exposure (AUC(0-infinity)) was slightly decreased (87.5% [84.0-91.2%]), compared with ambrisentan alone. Similar changes were observed with 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan. Tadalafil C(max) (100.6% [94.4-107.1%]) and AUC(0-infinity) (100.2% [92.6-108.4%]) showed no difference in the absence and presence of ambrisentan. The safety profile of the drugs combined was similar to that of either drug alone. No dose adjustments should be necessary when these drugs are coadministered. These results are in contrast to previous reports that the sulfonamide-based ERA bosentan can cause marked decreases in the exposure of tadalafil.
16719544	Exploring the relationship between expression of cytochrome P450 enzymes and gefitinib pharmacokinetics.	Exposure to gefitinib (IRESSA, ZD1839), an epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is highly variable between subjects. In an attempt to explain this variability, three pharmacokinetic studies were carried out in healthy volunteers to investigate the relationship between exposure to gefitinib and cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A phenotype (study 1), CYP3A5 genotype (study 2) and CYP2D6 genotype (study 3). In study 1 all 15 healthy volunteers received single oral doses of midazolam (7.5 mg), as a CYP3A probe, and gefitinib (500 mg), separated by an appropriate washout period. Plasma concentrations of midazolam and gefitinib were measured. In study 2, 73 healthy volunteers with previously defined single-dose gefitinib pharmacokinetic profiles were genotyped for CYP3A5. In study 3 a single oral dose of gefitinib (250 mg) was administered to poor and extensive CYP2D6 metabolisers (n = 15 in each group). Plasma concentrations of gefitinib and its major metabolite, M523595, were measured. Plasma concentrations of gefitinib, M523595 and midazolam were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection, and appropriate pharmacokinetic parameters were determined by non-compartmental methods. Genetic analysis of CYP3A5 (study 2) and CYP2D6 (study 3) alleles was carried out using standard methodology. In study 1 there was some indication of a correlation between the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUCinfinity) values of midazolam and gefitinib, although this did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.062, regression analysis). In study 2 eight of 73 volunteers (11%) were identified as CYP3A5 expressers. No apparent relationship was observed between the occurrence of the CYP3A5 expresser genotype and gefitinib plasma clearance or terminal elimination halflife. In study 3 M523595 was not detected in any plasma samples collected from poor CYP2D6 metabolisers. Gefitinib geometric mean AUCinfinity and peak plasma drug concentration were higher in poor CYP2D6 metabolisers compared with extensive metabolisers (AUCinfinity 3060 vs 1430 ng . h/mL, p < 0.05, ANOVA), although the range of values was wide with considerable overlap between the groups. Gefitinib was well tolerated in both groups. Individual differences in CYP3A expression do not explain all the interindividual variability in gefitinib exposure. There is no apparent relationship between CYP3A5 genotype and gefitinib clearance. The lack of measurable levels of M523595 in poor CYP2D6 metabolisers confirms that production of this metabolite is mediated by CYP2D6. Although higher exposure to gefitinib occurs in individuals who are poor CYP2D6 metabolisers, genotyping prior to initiation of therapy and dosage adjustment are not warranted.
12673669	Evaluation of the pharmacokinetic profiles of the new testosterone topical gel formulation, Testim, compared to AndroGel.	A two-period, randomized, complete crossover study was performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profiles of Testim (AA2500), a new 1% testosterone topical gel formulation, compared to AndroGel, an already available 1% testosterone topical gel. Twenty-nine hypogonadal subjects received a single dose (50 mg testosterone) of each formulation seven days apart. C(max) estimates for total testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and free testosterone were greater (30, 19 and 38%, respectively) following the application of Testim compared to AndroGel. Similarly, AUC(0-24) estimates for total testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and free testosterone were greater (30, 11 and 47%, respectively) following the application of Testim compared to AndroGel. Confidence intervals for C(max) and AUC(0-24) were not wholly contained within the bioequivalence limits for testosterone, therefore Testim trade mark and AndroGel are not bioequivalent with Testim providing higher serum levels and greater bioavailability than AndroGel.
8806713	The glucuronidation of exogenous and endogenous compounds by stably expressed rat and human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1.1.	Rat and human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1.1 share > 70% identity in their deduced primary amino acid sequences. We have previously shown that rat UGT1.1, stably expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, catalyzes the glucuronidation of bilirubin and the mixed opioid agonist/antagonist buprenorphine with high efficiency. The present study was designed to characterize the reactivity of expressed human UGT1.1 with opioid compounds and compare its substrate specificity for opioids to that of the expressed rat enzyme. The results show that both rat and human UGT1.1 catalyze the glucuronidation of opioids with a relative reactivity of buprenorphine > > nalorphine approximately naltrexone. Comparison of glucuronidation activities in livers from Crigler-Najjar type 1 patients and normal patients indicates that UGT1.1 catalyzes at least 75% of buprenorphine conjugation in normal human liver. In separate studies, the reactivity of expressed rat UGT1.1 was characterized toward various xeno-and endobiotics of various compound classes. It was found that both rat and human UGT1.1 exhibited comparable substrate specificities and efficiencies (Vmax/Km) of glucuronide formation for anthraquinones, coumarins, estrogens, flavonoids, and phenolic compounds. Neither rat nor human UGT1.1 catalyzed the glucuronidation of amines, monoterpenoid alcohols, androgens, or progestins. In general, these data indicate that rat and human UGT1.1 are functionally identical and can be considered orthologous enzymes.
22359337	New cathinone-derived designer drugs 3-bromomethcathinone and 3-fluoromethcathinone: studies on their metabolism in rat urine and human liver microsomes using GC-MS and LC-high-resolution MS and their detectability in urine.	3-Bromomethcathinone (3-BMC) and 3-Fluoromethcathinone (3-FMC) are two new designer drugs, which were seized in Israel during 2009 and had also appeared on the illicit drug market in Germany. These two compounds were sold via the Internet as so-called "bath salts" or "plant feeders." The aim of the present study was to identify for the first time the 3-BMC and 3-FMC Phase I and II metabolites in rat urine and human liver microsomes using GC-MS and LC-high-resolution MS (HR-MS) and to test for their detectability by established urine screening approaches using GC-MS or LC-MS. Furthermore, the human cytochrome-P450 (CYP) isoenzymes responsible for the main metabolic steps were studied to highlight possible risks of consumption due to drug-drug interaction or genetic variations. For the first aim, rat urine samples were extracted after and without enzymatic cleavage of conjugates. The metabolites were separated and identified by GC-MS and by LC-HR-MS. The main metabolic steps were N-demethylation, reduction of the keto group to the corresponding alcohol, hydroxylation of the aromatic system and combinations of these steps. The elemental composition of the metabolites identified by GC-MS could be confirmed by LC-HR-MS. Furthermore, corresponding Phase II metabolites were identified using the LC-HR-MS approach. For both compounds, detection in rat urine was possible within the authors' systematic toxicological analysis using both GC-MS and LC-MS(n) after a suspected recreational users dose. Following CYP enzyme kinetic studies, CYP2B6 was the most relevant enzyme for both the N-demethylation of 3-BMC and 3-FMC after in vitro-in vivo extrapolation.
14644617	Sex differences in the toxicokinetics of inhaled solvent vaporsin humans 1. m-Xylene.	The aim of this study was to evaluate possible sex differences in the inhalation toxicokinetics of m-xylene vapor. Seventeen healthy volunteers (nine women and eight men) were exposed to m-xylene (200 mg/m3) and to clean air (control exposure) on different occasions during 2 h of light physical exercise (50 W). The chosen level corresponds to the occupational exposure limit (8-h time weighted average) in Sweden. m-Xylene was monitored up to 24 h after exposure in exhaled air, blood, saliva, and urine by headspace gas chromatography. m-Methylhippuric acid (a metabolite of m-xylene) was analyzed in urine by high-performance liquid chromatography. Body fat and lean body mass (LBM) were estimated from sex-specific equations using bioelectrical impedance, body weight, height, and age. Genotypes and/or phenotypes of cytochromes P450 2E1 and 1A1, glutathione transferases M1 and P1, and epoxide hydrolase were determined. The toxicokinetic profile in blood was analyzed using a two-compartment population model. The area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of m-xylene in exhaled air postexposure was larger in women than in men. In addition, the excretion via exhaled air was significantly higher in women when correcting for body weight or LBM. In contrast, the men had a significantly higher volume of distribution, excretion of m-methylhippuric acid in urine, and AUC of m-xylene in urine. The toxicokinetic analyses revealed no differences between subjects of different metabolic genotypes or phenotypes. In conclusion, the study indicates small sex differences in the inhalation toxicokinetics of m-xylene, which can be explained by body build.
19214962	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the simultaneous determination of exemestane and its metabolite 17-dihydroexemestane in human plasma.	A simple and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method has been developed and validated for the quantitation of exemestane (Exe) and its main metabolite 17-dihydroexemestane (DhExe) in human plasma. The analytes were extracted by protein precipitation with acetonitrile, containing stable 13C-labelled Exe (13C3-Exe) as internal standard, and measured by LC-MS/MS. The best chromatographic separation of the analytes from the interferences was achieved by using a Phenyl column operating under isocratic regime conditions. The total chromatographic runtime was 5.0 min and the elution of Exe and DhExe occurred at 2.5 min and 2.9 min, respectively. Quantitation was performed by employing the positive electrospray ionization (ESI) technique and multiple reaction monitoring mode (MRM). The monitored precursor to product-ion transitions for Exe, DhExe and 13C3-Exe internal standard were m/z 297.0 --> 120.8, m/z 299.1 --> 134.9 and m/z 300.0 --> 123.2, respectively. The lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) was 0.1 ng/ml for DhExe and 0.2 ng/ml for Exe. The method was linear up to 36-51 ng/ml with r2 > or = 0.998. The intra- and inter-assay precision were < or = 7.7% and 5.1% for Exe and < or = 8.1 and 4.9% for DhExe while deviations from nominal values were in the 1.5-13.2% and - 9.0-5.8% ranges for Exe and DhExe, respectively. The analytical method resulted robust and suitable for pharmacokinetic monitoring of Exe and its main metabolite during adjuvant therapy in patients with breast cancer.
11503006	Effect of ranitidine on the pharmacokinetics of triazolam and alpha-hydroxytriazolam in both young (19-60 years) and older (61-78 years) people.	This study evaluated the effect of oral ranitidine (75 mg and 150 mg) on the pharmacokinetics of triazolam (0.25 mg) and its major metabolite, alpha-hydroxytriazolam, in both young and older people. Metabolite data were used to distinguish the mechanism of this interaction. This was a randomized, open-label, 3-way crossover study. Eighteen young (19-60 years) and 12 older (61-78 years) men and women were randomly assigned to receive evening doses of triazolam 0.25 mg (1) alone, (2) on the third day of dosing ranitidine 75 mg twice daily for 4 days, and (3) on the third day of dosing ranitidine 150 mg twice daily for 4 days. In the young group, mean triazolam area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity [AUC(0-infinity)] was 10% and 28% higher after treatment with 75 mg and 150 mg ranitidine, respectively. In the older group, mean triazolam AUC(0-infinity) was 31% and 28% higher after treatment with 75 mg and 150 mg ranitidine, respectively. There was no change in the alpha-hydroxytriazolam/triazolam AUC(0-infinity) ratio in either age group, indicating that neither formation nor elimination of alpha-hydroxytriazolam was affected by ranitidine. There were no changes in the half-life of triazolam or alpha-hydroxytriazolam. Ranitidine increases oral absorption of triazolam in both young and older people. This effect is likely caused by elevation of gastrointestinal pH, allowing for greater absorption of acid-labile triazolam. The difference in this effect between age groups at the lower 75-mg dose of ranitidine suggests that older people may be more sensitive to the antisecretory effect of ranitidine.
8937425	Direct measurement and regulation of 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) generation in vitro.	3'-Phosphoadenosine 5'-phospho[35S]sulfate (PAPS) biosynthesized from inorganic [35S]sulfate and ATP was separated from its radiolabeled precursor by reversed-phase paired-ion HPLC and quantified by on-line radiometric detection. This single-step procedure circumvents several problems inherent in conventional sulfotransferase-coupled assays employed in the measurement of PAPS formation. A good correlation was observed between the rate of PAPS generation assayed in several mammalian tissues measured by direct HPLC-radiometry and by coupling to the sulfation of minoxidil or 4-methylumbelliferone. Both AMP and ADP inhibited the rat liver sulfate-activating enzymes competitively with respect to MgATP2-, and the rate of PAPS production was decreased with decreasing ratios of [ATP]:[ADP] and [ATP]:[AMP]. It is possible that these adenine nucleotides regulate sulfate activation by kinetic control and by negative feedback modulation.
9001914	Occupational chronic exposure to organic solvents. XVI. Ambient and biological monitoring of workers exposed to toluene.	Ambient air and biological monitoring of an occupational toluene exposure was carried out on a group of 33 workers. The biological monitoring of the workers was based on determination of the concentration of toluene in blood and on quantification of the urinary metabolites o-cresol and hippuric acid. All blood and urine samples were collected post-shift. The average toluene concentration in the workplace air was 65 ppm, ranging from 13 to 151 ppm. AN average concentration of toluene in the blood of 911 microns/1 was found, corresponding to an average urinary concentration of 2.9 mg/1 (2.3 mg/g creatinine) o-cresol and 2.4 g/l (1.9 g/g creatinine) hippuric acid. Both urinary metabolites can be correlated with the concentration of toluene in ambient air and blood, respectively. The results of our study indicate that the determination of the urinary o-cresol excretion represents a diagnostically specific and sensitive parameter for the estimation of an individual toluene uptake. In contrast, monitoring of the concentration of hippuric acid in urine cannot be recommended for assessment of individual exposure. To set up a biological tolerance value (BAT) for o-cresol, a urinary concentration of 3 mg/l o-cresol should be in accordance with the current MAK value of 50 ppm toluene.
1154799	The disposition and metabolism of I.C.I. 58,834 (viloxazine) in humans.	1. 2-(2-Ethoxyphenoxymethyl)-2,3,5,6-tetrahydro-1,4-oxazine (I.C.I. 58,834) in three 14C-labelled forms, given orally to two male volunteers, was completely absorbed, extensively metabolized and rapidly eliminated via the kidney. 2. O-Dealkylation, the major metabolic pathway in the rat, was not significant in man. 3. The major component in blood at all times was I.C.I. 58,834, which had a blood half-life of 4 h. The level of 14C in blood at 31 h was near the limit of detection. 4. The observed activity of the drug appears to be due to the parent compound alone.
20669329	Identification and characterization of oxymetazoline glucuronidation in human liver microsomes: evidence for the involvement of UGT1A9.	The incubation of oxymetazoline, a nonprescription nasal decongestant, with human liver microsomes (HLMs) supplemented with uridine-5-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA) generated glucuronide metabolite as observed by LC/MS/MS. The uridine glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) responsible for the O-glucuronidation of oxymetazoline remain thus far unidentified. The glucuronide formed in HLMs was identified by LC/MS/MS and characterized by one- and two-dimensional NMR to be the -O-glucuronide of oxymetazoline. UGT screening with expressed UGTs identified UGT1A9 as the single UGT isoform catalyzing O-glucuronidation of oxymetazoline. Oxymetazoline O-glucuronidation by using HLMs was best fitted to the allosteric sigmoidal model. The derived S(50) and V(max) values were 2.42  0.40 mM and 8.69  0.58 pmole/(min mg of protein), respectively, and maximum clearance (CL(max)) was 3.61 L/min/mg. Oxymetazoline O-glucuronidation by using expressed UGT1A9 was best fitted to the substrate inhibition model. The derived K(m) and V(max) values were 2.53  1.03 mM and 54.18  16.92 pmole/(min mg of protein), respectively, and intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) was 21.41 L/(min mg). Our studies indicate that oxymetazoline is not glucuronidated at its nanomolar intranasal dose and thus is eliminated unchanged, because UGT1A9 would only contribute to its elimination at the toxic plasma concentrations.
14744950	Identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzyme(s) responsible for the glucuronidation of posaconazole (Noxafil).	Posaconazole (Noxafil, SCH 56592), an orally available broad-spectrum triazole antifungal, is currently in phase III clinical studies for treating serious opportunistic fungal infections. The major in vitro metabolite of posaconazole formed by human liver microsomes supplemented with uridine 5'-diphosphate-glucuronic acid was a glucuronide of posaconazole (m/z877). Screening of 10 cDNA-expressed recombinant human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes showed that only UGT1A4 exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of the glucuronide of posaconazole. The formation of glucuronide by human liver microsomes and UGT1A4 was inhibited by bilirubin, a known inhibitor of UGT1A4. There was a high correlation (r =0.90) between the rate of formation of glucuronide, determined in 10 human liver microsomal samples, and trifluoperazine glucuronidation catalyzed by UGT1A4. These results confirmed that the formation of major posaconazole-glucuronide produced from human liver microsomes was mediated via UGT1A4.
20665528	Simultaneous determination of aripiprazole and its active metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, in plasma by capillary electrophoresis combining on-column field-amplified sample injection and application in schizophrenia.	A sensitive high-performance CZE combining on-column field-amplified sample injection (FASI) has been developed for simultaneous determination of aripiprazole and its active metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, in human plasma. A sample pretreatment by means of liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) (diethyl ether) with subsequent quantitation by FASI-CZE was used. The separation of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole was performed using a BGE containing 150 mM phosphate buffer (pH 3.5) with 40% methanol and 0.02% PVA as a dynamic coating to reduce interaction of analytes with the capillary wall. Before sample loading, a methanol plug (0.3 psi, 6 s) was injected to permit FASI for stacking. The samples were injected electrokinetically (10 kV, 30 s) to introduce sample cations and the applied voltage was 20 kV with on-column detection at 214 nm. Several parameters affecting the separation and sensitivity of the drug and its active metabolite were studied, including reconstitution solvent, organic modifier, pH and concentration of phosphate buffer. The linear ranges of the method for test drug and its active metabolite, in plasma using amlodipine as an internal standard, were over the range 5.0-100.0 ng/mL. One female volunteer (25 years old) was orally administered a single dose of 10 mg aripiprazole (Abilify, Otsuka) and blood samples were drawn over a 60 h period for pharmacokinetic study. The method was also applied to monitor the concentration of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole in plasma collected after oral administration of 20 or 30 mg aripiprazole (Abilify, Otsuka) daily at steady state in one schizophrenic patient.
15288809	Human 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases types 1, 2, and 3 catalyze bi-directional equilibrium reactions, rather than unidirectional metabolism, in HEK-293 cells.	Human 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (17betaHSDs) catalyze the interconversion of weak and potent androgen and estrogen pairs. Although the reactions using purified enzymes can be driven in either direction, these enzymes appear to function unidirectionally in intact cells: only reductive reactions for 17betaHSD1 and 17beta HSD3 and only oxidative reactions for 17betaHSD2. We show that, after exhaustive incubations with either 17beta-hydroxy- or 17-ketosteroid, the medium for HEK-293 cells expressing 17betaHSD1 or 17betaHSD3 contains a 92:8 ratio of reduced:oxidized steroid. Similarly, 17betaHSD2 yields a >95:5 ratio of oxidized:reduced steroids for both androgens and estrogens. Dual-isotope kinetic measurements show that the rates of the forward and reverse reactions are identical at these functional equilibrium states in intact cells for all three 17betaHSD isoforms, and these rates are much faster than those estimated from single-isotope flux studies. Mutation L36D converts 17betaHSD1 to an oxidative enzyme in intact cells, reversing the equilibrium distribution of estradiol:estrone to 5:95; however, the rates of the forward and reverse reactions at equilibrium are equal and comparable to those of the wild-type enzymes. The co-expression of 17betaHSD2 paradoxically increases the potency of estrone in transactivation assays, demonstrating the physiological relevance of "backwards" metabolism to estradiol. We conclude that 17betaHSD types 1, 2, and 3 catalyze both oxidative and reductive reactions in HEK-293 cells at intrinsic rates that are much faster than those estimated from single-isotope studies. These 17betaHSD isoforms do not drive steroid flux in one direction but rather may achieve functional equilibria in intact cells, reflecting thermodynamically driven steroid distributions.
21645661	High temperature liquid chromatography hyphenated with ESI-MS and ICP-MS detection for the structural characterization and quantification of halogen containing drug metabolites.	In this paper we describe the hyphenation of high temperature liquid chromatography with ICP-MS and ESI-MS for the characterization of halogen containing drug metabolites. The use of temperature gradients up to 200C enabled the separation of metabolites with low organic modifier content. This specific property allowed the use of detection methods that suffer from (significant) changes in analyte response factors as a function of the organic modifier content such as ICP-MS. Metabolites of two kinase inhibitors (SB-203580-Iodo and MAPK inhibitor VIII) produced by bacterial cytochrome P450 BM3 mutants and human liver microsomes were identified based on high resolution MS(n) data. Quantification was done using their normalized and elemental specific response in the ICP-MS. The importance of these kinds of quantification strategies is stressed by the observation that the difference of the position of one oxygen atom in a structure can greatly affect its response in ESI-MS and UV detection.
17095207	Results from an in vitro and a clinical/pharmacological phase I study with the combination irinotecan and sorafenib.	This single-centre, open-label, phase I dose-escalation study was performed to investigate the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and efficacy of sorafenib, a multi-kinase inhibitor, combined with irinotecan, a cytotoxic agent, in patients with advanced, refractory solid tumours. In an initial dose-escalation phase, patients received irinotecan 125 mg/m(2) and sorafenib 100, 200 and 400 mg twice daily (bid) (cohorts 1-3). In an extended phase, colorectal cancer (CRC) patients received fixed-dose irinotecan 140 mg and sorafenib 400 mg bid (cohort 4). Thirty-four patients were treated: 20 in the dose-escalation phase (common tumour types: CRC [45%], ovarian [5%], pancreatic [5%]) and 14 patients in the CRC extension. Frequent drug-related adverse events were gastrointestinal symptoms, dermatological reactions and constitutional symptoms. The maximum tolerated dose was not reached. Generally, concomitant administration of irinotecan had no impact on the PK of sorafenib. Sorafenib 100 or 200 mg bid had no impact on the PK of irinotecan or its metabolite SN38. In contrast, sorafenib 400 mg bid significantly increased irinotecan and SN38 exposures; however, this was not associated with increased toxicities. Stable disease was achieved in 12/20 (60%) evaluable patients in cohorts 1-3, and 10/13 (77%) evaluable patients in cohort 4. A further patient from cohort 4 had a partial response of >200 days. The increase of SN38 exposure might be due to inhibition of formation of the SN38 glucuronide by sorafenib. In vitro, sorafenib strongly inhibited SN38 glucuronidation in human liver microsomes as indicated by a K(i) value of 2.7 micromol/l. Sorafenib 400 mg bid can be combined with irinotecan 125 mg/m(2) or 140 mg for the treatment of patients with advanced, refractory solid tumours, although monitoring for toxicity is recommended.
22233275	Enhanced intracellular accumulation of a non-nucleoside anti-cancer agent via increased uptake of its valine ester prodrug through amino acid transporters.	The phenomenon known as multiple-drug resistance, whereby anti-cancer agents are expelled from cancer cells, makes it necessary to develop methods that will reliably increase the accumulation of anti-cancer agents within cancer cells. To accomplish this goal, a new model compound, Val-SN-38, was synthesized by introducing valine to SN-38, an active ingredient of irinotecan. Val-SN-38 improved intracellular accumulation approximately 5-fold in MCF7 cells, compared with SN-38, and rather than changes in membrane permeability, the amino acid transporter ATB(0,+) played a role, whereas the dipeptide transporter PEPT1 did not. Other sodium-dependent amino acid transporters, namely ATA1, ATA2, and ASCT2, were unexpectedly involved in the uptake of Val-SN-38 as well. The efflux of Val-SN-38 by major efflux transporters was variably changed, but not significantly. In summary, the enhanced accumulation of Val-SN-38 in cancer cells was due to augmented uptake via various amino acid transporters. The results of the present study make a compelling argument in favour of a prodrug concept that can improve intracellular accumulation and take advantage of amino acid transporters without significantly inducing multiple-drug resistance.
11417881	Sensitive gas chromatographic determination of the cyclophosphamide metabolite 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide in human plasma.	Cyclophosphamide (CP) is one of the most frequently used anticancer agents. It is a prodrug requiring activation before exerting cytotoxicity. CP is deactivated to 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (2-DCECP) with formation of an equimolar amount of chloroacetaldehyde. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a sensitive and simple assay for 2-DCECP in plasma of patients treated with CP. Sample pre-treatment consisted of solid-phase extraction of 500 microl of plasma over OASIS HLB (1 ml) cartridges with trofosfamide as internal standard. Separation and detection of underivatized 2-DCECP was performed with capillary gas chromatography with nitrogen/phosphorous selective detection. Extraction recovery of 2-DCECP exceeded 87%. No interference from endogenous compounds, other metabolites of CP and frequently coadministered drugs was detected. The assay was linear in the range of 5-5000 ng/ml in plasma. Accuracy, within-day and between-day precision were less than 11% for the complete concentration range. In plasma, 2-DCECP was stable for at least 1 month when kept at -70 degrees C. Analysis of samples from patients treated with CP demonstrated the applicability of the assay. In conclusion, a sensitive and simple assay for 2-DCECP in plasma, which meets the current requirements for bioanalytical assays, was developed.
14615471	Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of BIA 3-202, a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, during multiple-dose administration to healthy subjects.	The tolerability, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacokinetics of BIA 3-202 (50 mg, 100 mg, and 200 mg twice daily and 200 mg thrice daily), a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, were investigated in healthy volunteers. BIA 3-202 was administered to four sequential groups of 8 healthy male subjects under a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled design. Within each group, 2 subjects were randomized to treatment with placebo. Treatment duration was 9 days: single dose on the first and last days and twice or thrice daily on days 3 to 8. BIA 3-202 was well tolerated at all dose regimens tested. Median maximum plasma BIA 3-202 concentrations were attained at 0.5 to 2.5 hours postdose. Thereafter, concentrations declined with a t1/2 of approximately 2 to 4 hours. The increase in the extent of systemic exposure, as measured by AUC0-tau, was approximately proportional to the administered dose. Steady state of plasma BIA 3-202 concentrations occurred by day 4 in all dose groups. Less than 1% of the total dose administered was excreted in urine up to 48 hours postdose. BIA 3-202 markedly reduced soluble COMT (S-COMT) activity in erythrocytes, with maximum inhibition occurring at 1 to 2 hours postdose; enzyme activity returned to baseline levels by approximately 8 hours. Inhibition of S-COMT activity appeared to increase with increasing doses of BIA 3-202 on both day 1 and day 9. In conclusion, BIA 3-202 was well tolerated in all the oral multiple-dose regimens tested. BIA 3-202 was shown to inhibit S-COMT activity in erythrocytes, and its pharmacokinetics appeared to be linear (i.e., dose independent and time invariant).
22031623	Identification of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases responsible for the glucuronidation of darexaban, an oral factor Xa inhibitor, in human liver and intestine.	Darexaban maleate is a novel oral direct factor Xa inhibitor, which is under development for the prevention of venous thromboembolism. Darexaban glucuronide was the major component in plasma after oral administration of darexaban to humans and is the pharmacologically active metabolite. In this study, we identified UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) responsible for darexaban glucuronidation in human liver microsomes (HLM) and human intestinal microsomes (HIM). In HLM, the K(m) value for darexaban glucuronidation was >250 M. In HIM, the reaction followed substrate inhibition kinetics, with a K(m) value of 27.3 M. Among recombinant human UGTs, UGT1A9 showed the highest intrinsic clearance for darexaban glucuronidation, followed by UGT1A8, -1A10, and -1A7. All other UGT isoforms were inactive toward darexaban. The K(m) value of recombinant UGT1A10 for darexaban glucuronidation (34.2 M) was comparable to that of HIM. Inhibition studies using typical UGT substrates suggested that darexaban glucuronidation in both HLM and HIM was mainly catalyzed by UGT1A8, -1A9, and -1A10. Fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (2%) decreased the unbound K(m) for darexaban glucuronidation from 216 to 17.6 M in HLM and from 35.5 to 18.3 M in recombinant UGT1A9. Recent studies indicated that the mRNA expression level of UGT1A9 is extremely high among UGT1A7, -1A8, -1A9, and -1A10 in human liver, whereas that of UGT1A10 is highest in the intestine. Thus, the present results strongly suggest that darexaban glucuronidation is mainly catalyzed by UGT1A9 and UGT1A10 in human liver and intestine, respectively. In addition, UGT1A7, -1A8, and -1A9 play a minor role in human intestine.
11270913	Differential effects of fluvoxamine and other antidepressants on the biotransformation of melatonin.	Melatonin, the predominant product of the pineal gland, is involved in the maintenance of diurnal rhythms. Nocturnal blood concentrations of melatonin have been shown to be enhanced by fluvoxamine, but not by other serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Because fluvoxamine is an inhibitor of several cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, the authors studied the biotransformation of melatonin and the effects of fluvoxamine on the metabolism of melatonin in vitro using human liver microsomes and recombinant human CYP isoenzymes. Melatonin was found to be almost exclusively metabolized by CYP1A2 to 6-hydroxymelatonin and N-acetylserotonin with a minimal contribution of CYP2C19. Both reactions were potently inhibited by fluvoxamine, with a Ki of 0.02 microM for the formation of 6-hydroxymelatonin and 0.05 microM for the formation of N-acetylserotonin. Other than fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, citalopram, imipramine, and desipramine were also tested at 2 and 20 microM. Among the other antidepressants, only paroxetine was able to affect the metabolism of melatonin at supratherapeutic concentrations of 20 microM, which did not reach by far the magnitude of the inhibitory potency of fluvoxamine. The authors concluded that fluvoxamine is a potent inhibitor of melatonin degradation. Because this inhibitory action is also found in vivo, fluvoxamine might be used as an enhancer of melatonin, which might offer new therapeutic possibilities of fluvoxamine.
19704027	A possible mechanism for the differences in efficiency and variability of active metabolite formation from thienopyridine antiplatelet agents, prasugrel and clopidogrel.	The efficiency and interindividual variability in bioactivation of prasugrel and clopidogrel were quantitatively compared and the mechanisms involved were elucidated using 20 individual human liver microsomes. Prasugrel and clopidogrel are converted to their thiol-containing active metabolites through corresponding thiolactone metabolites. The formation rate of clopidogrel active metabolite was much lower and more variable [0.164 + or - 0.196 microl/min/mg protein, coefficient of variation (CV) = 120%] compared with the formation of prasugrel active metabolite (8.68 + or - 6.64 microl/min/mg protein, CV = 76%). This result was most likely attributable to the less efficient and less consistent formation of clopidogrel thiolactone metabolite (2.24 + or - 1.00 microl/min/mg protein, CV = 45%) compared with the formation of prasugrel thiolactone metabolite (55.2 + or - 15.4 microl/min/mg protein, CV = 28%). These differences may be attributed to the following factors. Clopidogrel was largely hydrolyzed to an inactive acid metabolite (approximately 90% of total metabolites analyzed), and the clopidogrel concentrations consumed were correlated to human carboxylesterase 1 activity in each source of liver microsomes. In addition, 48% of the clopidogrel thiolactone metabolite formed was converted to an inactive thiolactone acid metabolite. The oxidation of clopidogrel to its thiolactone metabolite correlated with variable activities of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19. In conclusion, the active metabolite of clopidogrel was formed with less efficiency and higher variability than that of prasugrel. This difference in thiolactone formation was attributed to hydrolysis of clopidogrel and its thiolactone metabolite to inactive acid metabolites and to variability in cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation of clopidogrel to its thiolactone metabolite, which may contribute to the poorer and more variable active metabolite formation for clopidogrel than prasugrel.
7914403	Intestinal clearance of H2-antagonists.	Jejunal perfusion of cimetidine resulted in the appearance of lumenal cimetidine sulfoxide in both rats and humans. In the rat, ileal perfusion yielded negligible sulfoxide metabolite as compared with that of the jejunum. Jejunal co-perfusion of an anionic-exchange inhibitor, 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, blocked the appearance of drug sulfoxide, and methionine co-perfusion yielded concentration-dependent inhibition of lumenal cimetidine sulfoxide. Intravenous injection of high concentrations of cimetidine sulfoxide did not produce detectable lumenal metabolite levels during jejunal perfusion of drug-free buffer, providing in situ evidence that lumenal metabolite is generated by the small intestine. The extent of the appearance of lumenal sulfoxide was significantly greater for cimetidine than for the other three marketed H2-antagonists in rat jejunum. Variable intestinal clearance of this extensively prescribed class of therapeutic agents may contribute to their absorption variability.
12746330	Human uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase UGT2B7 conjugates mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid metabolites.	Mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid hormones are metabolized as glucuronide conjugates. Using labeled [(14)C]uridine diphosphate glucuronic acid and microsomal preparations from human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing the different human and monkey uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)2B enzymes, it is demonstrated that the two human allelic variants UGT2B7H((268)) and UGT2B7Y((268)) conjugate aldosterone, its A-ring reduced metabolites (5alpha-dihydroaldosterone and 3alpha,5beta-tetrahydroaldosterone), and both 5alpha- and 5beta-tetrahydrocortisone epimers. The two variants of UGT2B4 also glucuronidate tetrahydroaldosterone, whereas all enzymes tested were inefficient to produce cortisol glucuronide derivatives. Kinetic analyses reveal that UGT2B7 polymorphisms glucuronidate mineralocorticoids with a 5.5- to 20-fold higher affinity than glucocorticoids. For the first time, a significant difference between the two allelic variants of UGT2B7 is described, because UGT2B7H((268)) possesses an 11-fold higher aldosterone glucuronidation efficiency (ratio Vmax((app.))/Km((app.))) than UGT2B7Y((268)). RT-PCR experiments demonstrate the expression of UGT2B7 in human kidney and in renal proximal tubule epithelial cells, suggesting that mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids are metabolized in their target tissue. Measurement of aldosterone glucuronidation and normalization with the UGT2B protein contents in monkey tissues demonstrate that liver and kidney glucuronidate this hormone with a similar velocity. Immunohistochemical studies performed in monkey kidney cortex reveal a restrictive expression of UGT2B proteins in the epithelial cells of the proximal tubules. Because expression of the mineralocorticoid receptor was detected in the distal tubule epithelial cells, the present data suggest a two-cell mechanism of aldosterone action and metabolism in the kidney.
11345644	Human plasma carboxylesterase and butyrylcholinesterase enzyme activity: correlations with SN-38 pharmacokinetics during a prolonged infusion of irinotecan.	To characterize the relationships between human plasma irinotecan carboxylesterase-converting enzyme activity, caboxylesterase-mediated hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl acetate (pNPA), and the butyrylcholinesterase-mediated hydrolysis of butyrylthiocholine in human plasma and to test the ability of these in vitro tests to predict the variability in SN-38 pharmacokinetics in adult patients during a prolonged infusion of irinotecan. Individual plasma-converting enzyme activity was measured in 20 adult cancer patients participating in a pharmacokinetic and phase I clinical trial of a prolonged 96-h intravenous infusion of irinotecan. The pNPA and butyrylthiocholine hydrolysis in patient plasma was also assayed. The irinotecan carboxylesterase-converting enzyme in human plasma had a Vmax of 89.9 +/- 22.7 pmol/h per ml plasma and a Km of 207 +/- 56 microM (mean +/- SD, n = 3). The mean value of the specific activity of this enzyme in 20 adult cancer patients was 10.08 +/- 2.96 pmol/h per ml plasma ranging from 5.43 to 15.39 pmol/h per ml. The area-under-the-concentration-versus time curve (AUC) ratio of SN-38 to irinotecan (AUCSN-38/AUCCPT-11) was used to assess the relative SN-38 exposure to the active metabolite in individual patients. Pharmacokinetic variations in the relative exposure to SN-38 did not correlate with the measured carboxylesterase-converting enzyme activity nor with plasma butyrylcholinesterase activity in our patient population. However, it did correlate with the measured pNPA hydrolysis activity in patient plasma (r2 = 0.350, P = 0.0124, n = 18). Determination of patient plasma pNPA hydrolysis activity may have utility in predicting SN-38 pharmacokinetics during prolonged infusions of irinotecan.
1329363	Hep G2 cell line as a human model for sulphate conjugation of drugs.	1. The objective of this study was to examine the usefulness of the hepatoma cell line Hep G2 as a model for human sulphoconjugation of drugs, in particular stereoselective conjugation. 2. Using the substrates p-nitrophenol and dopamine, we found sulphation activities consistent with the presence of both the phenol (P) and the monoamine (M) form of the human phenolsulphotransferases in these cells. 3. The Kmapp was 3.0 microM for the sulphation of p-nitrophenol. This activity was inhibited selectively by 2,6-dichloro-4-nitrophenol, IC50 6 microM. The Kmapp was 39 microM for the sulphation of dopamine. This activity was selectively inhibited by elevated temperature. 4. The chiral adrenergic drugs (+/-)-terbutaline and (+/-)-4-hydroxypropranolol were both sulphated stereoselectively with Kmapp and Vmaxapp values for each enantiomer virtually identical to previous observations with human liver cytosol. 5. In a direct comparison, the estimated activity of the P form of phenolsulphotransferase in the Hep G2 cell line was 30% of that in human liver, whereas, surprisingly, the activity of the M form of phenolsulphotransferase was 4.5 times higher in the Hep G2 cells than in the liver.
8640937	Immunohistochemical quantitation of 4-aminobiphenyl-DNA adducts and p53 nuclear overexpression in T1 bladder cancer of smokers and nonsmokers.	An immunoperoxidase method, using a monoclonal antibody which recognizes 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP)-DNA adducts, was developed for the detection and quantitation of DNA damage in bladder tissue and applied to stored paraffin blocks of transurethral resection specimens of 46 patients with T1 bladder cancer. Mean relative staining intensity for 4-ABP-DNA adducts was significantly higher in current smokers (275 +/- 81, n = 24) compared to nonsmokers (113 +/- 71, n = 22) (P < 0.0001). There was a linear relationship between mean levels of relative staining and number of cigarettes smoked with lower levels in the 1-19 cig/day group (205 +/- 30, n = 5), compared to the 20-40 (289 +/- 40, n = 7) and the >40 cig/day group (351 +/- 57, n = 3)(P < 0.001). Nuclear overexpression of p53, analyzed by immunoperoxidase staining, was observed in 27 (59%) of the 45 stage T1 tumors analyzed. There was a significant correlation between p53 overexpression and recurrence of disease (odds ratio = 12.3, P < 0.01). Nuclear staining of p53 was also correlated with smoking status, cig/day and 4-ABP-DNA adducts. This work demonstrates that the immunohistochemical method has sufficient sensitivity for detection of 4-ABP-DNA adducts in human bladder samples. The method has several advantages including small sample size, the possibility of retrospective analysis of stored paraffin blocks, the ability to analyze binding in specific cell types, and a relatively low cost.
15073108	Single ascending dose tolerability, pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic study of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase inhibitor Ro 09-4889.	Ro 09-4889 was designed to enhance the anticancer efficacy of capecitabine (Xeloda) by generating a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase inhibitor (DPDi) 5-vinyluracil (5-VU) preferentially in tumor tissues. This study assessed the tolerance to Ro 09-4889 treatment, and related pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data such as inhibition of DPD activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and plasma uracil levels. This was a single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose escalation study in 64 healthy male volunteers at 1-, 5-, 20-, 50-, 75-, 100-, and 200-mg oral dose of Ro 09-4889. Also, food effect was assessed separately in a group dosed with 20 mg of the compound. No serious adverse effects or significant laboratory and electrocardiogram abnormalities were observed during the study. Ro 09-4889 has a short elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of 0.5 h, followed by metabolites 5'-deoxy-5-vinyluridine (5'-DVUR), 5'-deoxy-5-vinylcytidine (5'-DVCR), and 5-VU with t(1/2) of 1.3, 1.2, and 2 h, respectively. The major metabolite excreted in urine was 5-DVCR (45% of dose). The inhibition of PBMC DPD activity and the increase in plasma uracil were related to Ro 09-4889 dose. DPD inhibition versus dose and uracil AUC (area under the curve) versus dose were modeled using the E(max) model with a baseline effect. The model-predicted ED(50) value was 100 mg. Single oral doses of Ro 09-4889 ranging from 1 to 200 mg were well tolerated. On the basis of these findings, a 10-to-30-mg dose range of Ro 09-4889 combined with capecitabine could be appropriate for further evaluation in cancer patients.
21610205	Pharmacokinetics of levodopa/carbidopa delivered from gastric-retentive extended-release formulations in patients with Parkinson's disease.	The investigators conducted a single-dose pharmacokinetic (PK) study of levodopa/carbidopa delivered from novel gastric-retentive extended-release (ER) tablets versus a comparator ER tablet (M-ER) in patients with Parkinson's disease. Two levodopa/carbidopa (200 mg/50 mg) gastric-retentive ER formulations (4 hours and 6 hours) and M-ER were administered orally with food. Blood samples were collected for up to 24 hours post dose to determine levodopa and carbidopa concentrations. Tolerability was assessed by monitoring adverse events and measuring vital signs. PK modeling was conducted to estimate the release characteristics for future gastric-retentive ER formulations to achieve a less fluctuating plasma concentration profiles. Compared with M-ER, both gastric-retentive ER formulations exhibited a longer time to reach a lower maximal plasma concentration for levodopa and carbidopa. The 4-hour formulation demonstrated a similar area under the concentration-time curve compared with M-ER, whereas the 6-hour formulation demonstrated a lower area under the concentration-time curve. All formulations were well tolerated. Modeling suggests that a gastric-retentive ER formulation with a longer release duration administered twice daily may achieve a less fluctuating levodopa concentration profile than M-ER administered 3 times daily. This study demonstrates that gastric-retentive ER dosage forms may reduce dose frequency while minimizing the plasma peak-to-trough fluctuation and consequently reduce motor fluctuation in patients with Parkinson's disease.
20592724	Gemfibrozil markedly increases the plasma concentrations of montelukast: a previously unrecognized role for CYP2C8 in the metabolism of montelukast.	According to available information, montelukast is metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and 2C9. In order to study the significance of CYP2C8 in the pharmacokinetics of montelukast, 10 healthy subjects were administered gemfibrozil 600 mg or placebo twice daily for 3 days, and 10 mg montelukast on day 3, in a randomized, crossover study. Gemfibrozil increased the mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC)(0-infinity), peak plasma concentration (C(max)), and elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of montelukast 4.5-fold, 1.5-fold, and 3.0-fold, respectively (P < 0.001). After administration of gemfibrozil, the time to reach C(max) (t(max)) of the montelukast metabolite M6 was prolonged threefold (P = 0.005), its AUC(0-7) was reduced by 40% (P = 0.027), and the AUC(0-24) of the secondary metabolite M4 was reduced by >90% (P < 0.001). In human liver microsomes, gemfibrozil 1-O-beta glucuronide inhibited the formation of M6 (but not of M5) from montelukast 35-fold more potently than did gemfibrozil (half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) 3.0 and 107 micromol/l, respectively). In conclusion, gemfibrozil markedly increases the plasma concentrations of montelukast, indicating that CYP2C8 is crucial in the elimination of montelukast.
15193727	Simultaneous determination of albendazole and its major active metabolite in human plasma using a sensitive and specific liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric method.	A method for the simultaneous determination of albendazole (ABZ) and its major active metabolite albendazole sulfoxide (ABZ-SO) was developed and validated. The analytes were extracted from plasma samples by liquid-liquid extraction and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with an electrospray ionization interface. Estazolam was used as the internal standard. The assay was linear in the concentration range 0.4-200 ng/ml for ABZ and 4.0-2000 ng/ml for ABZ-SO. The intra- and inter-run precision (R.S.D.), calculated from quality control (QC) samples was less than 7.1 and 9.4% for ABZ and ABZ-SO, respectively. The accuracy as determined from QC samples was within +/- 3% for the analytes. Recoveries of ABZ and ABZ-SO were greater than 77 and 53%, respectively, over the calibration curve range. The method developed was successfully applied to pharmacokinetic studies of ABZ and ABZ-SO after an oral dose of 400 mg albendazole to healthy volunteers.
14522039	Determination of urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) is considered a useful biomarker for the measurement of low levels of benzene exposure, related to occupational exposure, smoking habits or environmental pollution. S-PMA quantitative analysis requires highly sensitive and specific techniques and purification procedures, mainly based on liquid-liquid or solid-phase extraction, which result in time expensive analyses. A method was developed for the quantitative determination of S-PMA in urine by using a simple, reproducible and easily automatizable HPLC purification followed by LC/ESI-NI/MS2 analysis. In order to reduce the cost of the analysis, related to the use of expensive labeled standards, p-bromo-S-phenylmercapturic acid (p-Br-S-PMA) was synthesized, characterized and used as internal standard. The feasibility and efficacy of the proposed method were examined by constructing calibration curves in the range from 6.2 to 200 microg/l and data were analyzed in terms of linearity and statistical parameters. The detection limit, related to the purification of 1 ml urine sample is 5 microg/l. The method was applied to the analysis of 12 urine samples from smoker subjects non-occupationally exposed to benzene. S-PMA urinary levels ranged from 13.6 to >200 microg/l, suggesting a high influence of life style in the S-PMA excretion. The proposed analytical method is suitable for the biological monitoring of both smoker and non-smoker workers, occupationally exposed to benzene. By processing at least 2 ml of urine samples, the method appears to be also useful for the evaluation of benzene uptake due to the environmental pollution.
17132760	The Relationship between PON1 phenotype and PON1-192 genotype in detoxification of three oxons by human liver.	Phosphorothioate pesticides (OP) such as diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and parathion are activated to highly toxic oxon metabolites by the cytochromes P450 (P450s), mainly in the liver. Simultaneously, the P450s catalyze detoxification of OP to nontoxic dearylated metabolites. The oxon is then detoxified to the dearylated metabolite by PON1, an A-esterase present in the liver and blood serum. The aims of this study were to define the influence of PON1-192 genotype and phenotype on the capacity of human liver microsomes (n = 27) to detoxify the oxons diazoxon, chlorpyrifos-oxon, and paraoxon. Near physiological assay conditions were used to reflect as closely as possible metabolism in vivo and because the hydrolytic activity of the allelic variants of PON1-192 are differentially affected by a number of conditions. The rates of hydrolysis of diazoxon, chlorpyrifos-oxon, and paraoxon varied 5.7-, 16-, and 56-fold, respectively, regardless of PON1-192 genotype. Individuals with the PON1-192RR genotype preferentially hydrolyzed paraoxon (p < 0.01), and the R allele was associated with higher hydrolytic activity toward chlorpyrifos-oxon, but not diazoxon. There were strongly significant relationships between phenylacetate and paraoxon hydrolysis (p < 0.001) and phenylacetate and chlorpyrifos-oxon hydrolysis (p < 0.001), but not between phenylacetate and diazoxon hydrolysis. These data highlight the importance of PON1 phenotype for efficient hydrolysis of paraoxon and chlorpyrifos-oxon, but environmental and yet unknown genetic factors are more important than PON1-192 genotype in determining capacity to hydrolyze diazoxon.
17980988	Do drug users use less alcohol than non-drug users? A comparison of ethyl glucuronide concentrations in hair between the two groups in medico-legal cases.	Two groups were selected from the remainder of hair samples that had been tested for drugs at TrichoTech for medico-legal cases: samples that tested negative (drug-negative group; N=42, age 33.4+/-7.2 years) and samples that tested positive for drugs (drug-positive group; N=57, age 32.5+/-8.8 years). A rapid, simple method to detect the ethanol metabolite, ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in hair has been developed. The hair samples were sectioned, and then submitted to overnight sonication in water. Samples then underwent SPE using anion exchange cartridges, followed by derivatisation with N,O-bis[trimethylsilyl]trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA), before confirmation by GC-MS/MS. The assay produced excellent linearity and sensitivity over the calibration range 0.02-1.0 ng/mg, assuming a 10 mg hair sample. The mean age of the two groups was not statistically different (p=0.575, Student t-test), indicating a homogeneous group. Twelve of the 57 (21.0%) hair samples of the drug-positive group tested positive for EtG, and 17 of the 42 (40.5%) hair samples of the drug-negative group tested positive for EtG. The mean concentration of EtG in the drug-positive group was 0.011 ng/mg compared to 0.107 ng/mg in the drug-negative group. When the full results of this study were subjected to statistical analysis it was shown that EtG levels in the drug-negative group were statistically higher than those found in the drug-positive group (p<0.05). This preliminary finding may be of use in the study of addiction and adds valuable data to previous studies regarding the use of EtG as a valuable marker for alcohol levels in hair.
16679388	New cytochrome P450 2D6*56 allele identified by genotype/phenotype analysis of cryopreserved human hepatocytes.	Genotype/phenotype analysis with human hepatocytes has identified a new inactive CYP2D6 allele, CYP2D6*56. Cryopreserved human hepatocytes from 51 livers were evaluated for CYP2D6 activity with dextromethorphan as the probe substrate. Hepatocyte lots that lacked CYP2D6 activity were further evaluated for CYP2D6 expression and known genetic variations, including CYP2D6*2, *3, *4, *5, *6, *7, *8, *9, *10, *11, *14, *15, *17, *18, *19, *20, *25, *26, *29, *30, *35, *40, *41, *43, and various multiple copy CYP2D6 alleles (*1xn, *2xn, and *4xn) by the AmpliChip CYP450 prototype microarray (Roche Molecular Systems, Inc., Branchburg, NJ). Two discrepancies were uncovered between the CYP2D6 genotype and activity by this approach. In one sample, a previously unreported 3201C 224 T transition in exon 7 resulted in Arg344(CGA) being replaced by a stop codon (TGA), resulting in a CYP2D6 enzyme lacking the terminal 153 amino acids. This allele was given the designation of CYP2D6*56 and the GenBank accession number DQ282162. The lack of CYP2D6 activity in cryopreserved hepatocytes and microsomes found in the second sample, despite a normal level of CYP2D6 expression and a genotype (*10/*1) predictive of normal CYP2D6 activity, was attributed to enzyme inactivation by an unknown metabolite. The identification and characterization of the CYP2D6*56 allele indicates that commercial cryopreserved human hepatocytes may provide a valuable means to rapidly identify genetic variations with functional relevance. This integrated approach of identifying alleles and examining allele relationships to gene expression and function could be of tremendous value to understanding the mechanism responsible for functional differences in gene variation. The commercial availability of human cryopreserved hepatocytes also makes this potential readily available to any who are interested in it, not just those with access to private liver banks.
19256552	Intestinal absorption and blood clearance of L-histidine-related compounds after ingestion of anserine in humans and comparison to anserine-containing diets.	Anserine is a bioactive dipeptide found in muscles and brains of vertebrates, but little is known about the kinetics of its absorption into blood and the clearance after the ingestion of anserine or anserine-containing diets. This study investigated time-dependent changes in the concentrations of l-histidine-related compounds from deproteinized blood. The concentration of anserine peaked and then decreased to zero, whereas the concentration of pi-methylhistidine gradually increased, at which point anserine was not detected. Thus, ingested anserine is absorbed intact in human blood and is hydrolyzed to pi-methylhistidine and beta-alanine by serum and tissue carnosinases. Moreover, the crossover study suggests that there was no significant difference in absorption under curves of anserine between anserine alone and anserine-containing diet, whereas there was significant difference in the peak concentration of anserine. This is the first study to demonstrate intestinal absorption and blood clearance of anserine.
17921260	Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in hair of pregnant women and their infants after controlled buprenorphine administration.	Buprenorphine is under investigation as a pharmacotherapeutic agent for treating opioid dependence in pregnant women. We hypothesized that there would be a relationship between the cumulative maternal dose of buprenorphine during pregnancy and the concentration of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in maternal and infant hair. This study examined buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine concentrations in hair obtained from 9 buprenorphine-maintained pregnant women and 4 of their infants. Specimens were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with limits of quantification of 3.0 pg/mg. All maternal hair specimens were washed with methylene chloride before analysis, and when sufficient amounts of maternal hair were available, specimens also were analyzed without washing. Infant hair specimens were not washed. Buprenorphine concentrations were significantly greater in unwashed hair than washed hair (P = 0.031). Norbuprenorphine concentrations were significantly greater than buprenorphine concentrations in both maternal (P = 0.0097) and infant hair (P = 0.0033). There were statistically significant associations between the cumulative maternal dose of buprenorphine administered and the concentrations of buprenorphine (washed, P <0.0001; unwashed, P = 0.0004), norbuprenorphine (washed, P <0.0001; unwashed, P = 0.0005), and buprenorphine plus norbuprenorphine (washed, P <0.0001; unwashed, P = 0.0005) for both washed and unwashed maternal hair specimens. There was a significant positive association between concentrations of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in maternal hair (washed, P <0.0001; unwashed, P = 0.0003), a trend for this association in infant hair (P = 0.08), and an association between buprenorphine concentrations in maternal unwashed hair and infant hair (P = 0.0002). The buprenorphine:norbuprenorphine ratio increased in distal segments. Buprenorphine treatment during gestation provides an opportunity for monitoring drug disposition in maternal and fetal tissues under controlled conditions.
22342293	CYP2E1 phenotype in Mexican workers occupationally exposed to low levels of toluene.	CYP2E1, an inducible enzyme present in different human tissues, metabolizes several potentially toxic substances including many volatile organic compounds (VOCs). One indirect way to monitor exposure to VOCs may be, therefore, the assessment of CYP2E1 activity in vivo using the chlorzoxazone (CHZ) test. To compare CYP2E1 activity in two groups of workers: one with a known occupational exposure to VOCs (exposed group) and the other employed in administrative tasks at two universities (control group) from the city of Len, Guanajuato, Mxico. (1) Passive diffusion monitors were used to evaluate individual levels of exposure to toluene, benzene and ethylbenzene in 48 persons (24 tannery workers and 24 administrative controls) during a 8h work shift; (2) after 12h fasting 500mg CHZ, a selective probe for assessing CYP2E1 activity, was orally administered and, after 2h, a venous blood sample was collected for HPLC plasmatic quantitative determination of CHZ and its mean metabolite 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone. Toluene mean exposure levels were higher in the exposed group (2.862ppm vs. 0.050.005ppm; p<0.001). Also, in this group CYP2E1 activity was lower (p<0.05) and it decreased as the accumulated months of labor exposure increased (negative correlation, p<0.05). These results are in line with previous findings obtained from shoemakers exposed to various solvents but, interestingly, they are partly in contrast with those of another study in printers. In spite of the relatively low levels of toluene exposure found for tannery workers, an effect on CYP2E1 activity was evident. Although the mechanism of this interaction is still unknown, the decrease in CYP2E1 activity per se might represent a health risk, considering that these workers may be less protected against other CYP2E1 substrates present in the labor setting or derived from an intentional exposure.
20864289	Automated system for on-line desorption of dried blood spots applied to LC/MS/MS pharmacokinetic study of flurbiprofen and its metabolite.	This paper illustrates the development of an automated system for the on-line bioanalysis of dried blood spots (on-line DBS). In this way, a prototype was designed for integration into a conventional LC/MS/MS, allowing the successive extraction of 30 DBS toward the analytical system without any sample pretreatment. The developed method was assessed for the DBS analysis of flurbiprofen (FLB) and its metabolite 4-hydroxyflurbiprofen (OH-FLB) in human whole blood (i.e. 5 L). The automated procedure was fully validated based on international criteria and showed good precision, trueness, and linearity over the expected concentration range (from 10 to 1000 ng/mL and 100 to 10,000 ng/mL for OH-FLB and FLB respectively). Furthermore, the prototype showed good results in terms of recovery and carry-over. Stability of both analytes on filter paper was also investigated and the results suggested that DBS could be stored at ambient temperature for over 1 month. The on-line DBS automated system was then successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study performed on healthy male volunteers after oral administration of a single 50-mg dose of FLB. Additionally, a comparison between finger capillary DBS and classic venous plasma concentrations was investigated. A good correlation was observed, demonstrating the complementarity of both sampling forms. The automated system described in this article represents an efficient tool for the LC/MS/MS analysis of DBS samples in many bioanalytical applications.
27019	Metabolism of atenolol in man.	1. The disposition and metabolism of 1-(4-carbamoyl[14C]methylphenoxy)-3-isopropylaminopan-2-ol (atenolol, Tenormin) has been studied in man following oral and intravenous doses. 2. Approx. 50% of an oral dose was eliminated in urine; the major radiolabelled component was atenolol (approx. 90%). Faecal extracts also contained largely unchanged atenolol, with small amounts of more polar metabolites. Biliary excretion of atenolol and its metabolites is not a major route of elimination in man. Metabolism of the compound is not extensive and route-dependent modes of metabolism do not appear to complicate the position. 3. Atenolol appeared to be the only major radiolabelled component in blood. 4. Oral doses of atenolol are incompletely absorbed (range 46-62%), even when formulated as a solution. 5. 1-[4-(C-Carbamoylhydroxymethyl)phenoxy]-3-isopropylaminopropan-2-ol was a minor urinary metabolite, which has only one tenth the activity of the parent compound as a beta-adrenergic blocking agent in the rat. 6. Pharmacological activity in man appears to be due to atenolol alone.
14630070	Phase I and phase II metabolic activities are retained in liver slices from mouse, rat, dog, monkey and human after cryopreservation.	Precision-cut liver slices are described as a valuable tool for in vitro metabolism studies of potential drug candidates. Recently, some papers reported successful cryopreservation conditions for liver slices, facilitating a broader and more efficient use of the tissue (particularly of human origin). The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of cryopreservation on both phase I and phase II metabolism in liver slices prepared from mouse, rat, dog, monkey and human, using rapid freezing in the presence of 18% DMSO. Glucuronidation and sulfation activities (phase II) in both freshly prepared and cryopreserved liver slices were determined by rapid LC-MS/MS analyses using 7-hydroxycoumarin as a marker substrate. Testosterone was used as a marker substrate for cytochrome P450 mediated drug metabolism (phase I). Although the metabolic patterns and rates varied among the different species, the phase I and phase II metabolic capacities of the liver slices were well maintained after cryopreservation. Despite the good biotransformation capacity of cryopreserved slices a decrease in viability, expressed as ATP content and LDH leakage, was observed. MTT reduction was well maintained after cryopreservation. The possibility to cryopreserve liver slices will allow a more efficient utilisation of tissue, in particular from human, but also from dog and monkey. Finally, cryopreserved liver slices from mouse, rat, dog, monkey and human with good phase I and II metabolism activities are a useful in vitro tool to compare metabolite profiles of new chemical entities between species.
18846481	Human CYP3A4-introduced HepG2 cells: in vitro screening system of new chemicals for the evaluation of CYP3A4-inhibiting activity.	1. The aims were to attest whether HepG2-GS-3A4, a cell line into which the human CYP3A4 gene was introduced, can be used for a screening of chemicals that will inhibit CYP3A4 activity. 2. The capacity of the cells for metabolizing CYP3A4 substrates in vitro was evaluated. Also determined was the effect of CYP3A4 inhibitors and non-inhibitors on nifedipine hydroxylation. Western blot, immunohistochemostry and determination of beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-reductase activity were performed. 3. HepG2-GS-3A4 selectively metabolized substrates of CYP3A4 (diazepam, nordiazepam, lidocaine, atorvastatin, and nifedipine) to a greater degree than control. The metabolites were easily detected in the culture medium. Values of V(max) of HepG2-GS-3A4 were about 30- to 100-fold higher than those of the control, while values of K(m) were comparable. Pre-incubation of cimetidine and ketoconazole significantly inhibited nifedipine hydroxylation, while addition of inhibitors specific to other isoforms of CYPs had no substantial effect. The HepG2-GS-3A4 expressed a higher amount of CYP3A4 protein and mRNA than control. Most NADPH reductase activity was detected in microsomal fractions. 4 In conclusion, HepG2-GS-3A4 sufficiently and selectively metabolize substrates of CYP3A4, and inhibitors of CYP3A4 reduced the metabolism. Because the metabolites were easily detected in the culture medium, this cell might be useful for the new and easy screening of new drugs for the evaluation of CYP3A4-inhibiting activity in vitro.
7955815	Quantitative analysis of two pyridinium metabolites of haloperidol in patients with schizophrenia.	A pyridinium metabolite (HPP+) of the neuroleptic drug haloperidol has been identified in rats and in the urine of patients. The purpose of this study was to measure the steady-state blood and plasma concentrations and daily urinary excretion of HPP+ in patients treated with haloperidol. HPP+ was measured by HPLC with fluorescence detection. The chromatograms also revealed the presence of a previously unknown pyridinium species, which was identified in urine by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry as 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxybutylpyridinium (RHPP+). Concentrations of RHPP+ were then measured by HPLC. The steady-state concentrations of HPP+ or RHPP+ in blood and plasma from 34 patients were virtually identical. The plasma concentrations of each metabolite were related to the daily dose of haloperidol and to its plasma concentrations. Nonlinearity in the elimination of RHPP+ was suggested by the increase in the ratio between RHPP+ and HPP+ plasma concentrations with dose or steady-state concentrations of haloperidol. The concentrations of RHPP+ in plasma and urine generally exceeded those of HPP+; the ratio between them in plasma ranged from 0.9 to 14.1. The daily urinary excretion of HPP+ and RHPP+ accounted for 0.40% +/- 0.18% and 2.3% +/- 1.4% of the haloperidol dose, respectively. The renal clearance of each species was 4.5 +/- 2.5 and 11.3 +/- 5.3 L/hr, respectively. The presence of these pyridinium species in humans raises the concern that they may be neurotoxic in a manner similar to the dopaminergic pro-neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.
8765473	Identification of CYP3A4 as the principal enzyme catalyzing mifepristone (RU 486) oxidation in human liver microsomes.	Various complementary approaches were used to elucidate the major cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme responsible for mifepristone (RU 486) demethylation and hydroxylation in human liver microsomes: chemical and immunoinhibition of specific CYPs; correlation analyses between initial rates of mifepristone metabolism and relative immunodetectable CYP levels and rates of CYP marker substrate metabolism; and evaluation of metabolism by cDNA-expressed CYP3A4. Human liver microsomes catalyzed the demethylation of mifepristone with mean (+/-SD) apparent K(m) and Vmax values of 10.6 +/- 3.8 microM and 4920 +/- 1340 pmol/min/mg protein, respectively; the corresponding values for hydroxylation of the compound were 9.9 +/- 3.5 microM and 610 +/- 260 pmol/min/mg protein. Progesterone and midazolam (CYP3A4 substrates) inhibited metabolite formation by up to 77%. The CYP3A inhibitors gestodene, triacetyloleandomycin, and 17 alpha-ethynylestradiol inhibited mifepristone demethylation and hydroxylation by 70-80%; antibodies to CYP3A4 inhibited these reactions by approximately 82 and 65%, respectively. In a bank of human liver microsomes from 14 donors, rates of mifepristone metabolism correlated significantly with relative immunodetectable CYP3A levels, rates of midazolam 1'-and 4-hydroxylation and rates of erythromycin N-demethylation, marker CYP3A catalytic activities (all r2 > or = 0.85 and P < 0.001). No significant correlations were observed for analyses with relative immunoreactive levels or marker catalytic activities of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP2E1. Recombinant CYP3A4 catalyzed mifepristone demethylation and hydroxylation with apparent K(m) values 7.4 and 4.1 microM, respectively. Collectively, these data clearly support CYP3A4 as the enzyme primarily responsible for mifepristone demethylation and hydroxylation in human liver microsomes.
23122401	Simultaneous determination of morinidazole, its N-oxide, sulfate, and diastereoisomeric N(+)-glucuronides in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Morinidazole is a new third-generation 5-nitroimidazole antimicrobial drug. To investigate the pharmacokinetic profiles of morinidazole and its major metabolites in humans, a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was developed and validated for simultaneous determination of morinidazole, its N-oxide metabolite (M4-1), a sulfate conjugate (M7), and two diastereoisomeric N(+)-glucuronides (M8-1 and M8-2) in human plasma. A simple acetonitrile-induced protein precipitation was employed to extract five analytes and internal standard metronidazole from 50L human plasma. To avoid the interference from the in-source dissociation of the sulfate and achieve the baseline-separation of diastereoisomeric N(+)-glucuronides, all the analytes were separated from each other with the mobile phase consisting of 10mM ammonium formate and acetonitrile using gradient elution on a Hydro-RP C(18) column (50mm2mm, 4m) with a total run time of 5min. The API 4000 triple quadrupole mass spectrometer was operated under the multiple reaction-monitoring mode using the electrospray ionization technique. The developed method was linear in the concentration ranges of 10.0-12,000ng/mL for morinidazole, 1.00-200ng/mL for M4-1, 2.50-500ng/mL for M7, 3.00-600ng/mL for M8-1, and 10.0-3000ng/mL for M8-2. The intra- and inter-day precisions for each analyte met the accepted value. Results of the stability of morinidazole and its metabolites in human plasma were also presented. The method was successfully applied to the clinical pharmacokinetic studies of morinidazole injection in healthy subjects, patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency, and patients with severe renal insufficiency, respectively.
11914913	Determinants of the cytotoxicity of irinotecan in two human colorectal tumor cell lines.	Irinotecan is a drug of the camptothecin family that has proven activity in advanced colon cancer, with about 20% responses in untreated as well as in 5-fluorouracil-resistant tumors. Irinotecan is considered as a prodrug which needs to be activated to SN-38 by carboxylesterases to become able to interact with its target, topoisomerase I. The work reported here intended to identify the determinants of the cytotoxicity of irinotecan in two human colorectal tumor cell lines, LoVo and HT-29, at the level of the target of the drug and at the level of the availability of the active metabolite to the target. The cytotoxicity of irinotecan and SN-38 markedly differed in the two cell lines: irinotecan IC(50) values were 15.8 microM for LoVo cells and 5.17 microM for HT-29 cells; SN-38 IC(50) values were 8.25 n M for LoVo cells and 4.50 n M for HT-29 cells. Topoisomerase I expression (at the mRNA and the protein levels) and catalytic activity were similar in the two cell lines. Irinotecan induced similar amounts of cleavable complexes at its IC(50) in both cell lines. SN-38 induced a concentration-dependent formation of cleavable complexes, which was not significantly different in the two cell lines. Expression of the carboxylesterase CES1 was higher in HT-29 than in LoVo cells. Expression of the carboxylesterase gene CES2 was comparable in the two cell lines and much higher than CES1 gene expression. Carboxylesterase activity was extremely low using p-nitrophenylacetate as a substrate (1.45 and 1.84 pmol/min per mg proteins) and could not even be detected using irinotecan as a substrate. Cell accumulation of irinotecan was markedly different, reaching consistently higher levels in HT-29 cells than in LoVo cells. Our results indicate that (1) the cytotoxicity of irinotecan was likely due to the drug itself and not to its metabolite SN-38, and (2) that irinotecan uptake was more predictive of its cytotoxicity than topoisomerase I availability and activity in these two cell lines.
11719726	Ritonavir increases loperamide plasma concentrations without evidence for P-glycoprotein involvement.	The antidiarrheal drug loperamide is frequently used to treat ritonavir-associated diarrhea in patients with human immunodeficiency virus. The absence of marked central opioid effects has been attributed to its low bioavailability and its poor penetration of the blood-brain barrier, both of which might be altered by ritonavir, a potent P-glycoprotein and cytochrome P4503A inhibitor. A 16-mg dose of loperamide was administered to 12 healthy male and female volunteers together with either 600 mg of ritonavir or placebo. Detailed pharmacokinetics of loperamide and its metabolites were determined over 72 hours. Central opioid effects were measured by evaluation of pupil diameter, cold pressor test, and transcutaneous PCO2 and PO2. Ritonavir caused a major pharmacokinetic interaction, increasing the area under the concentration-time curve of loperamide from 104 +/- 60 h x pmol/ml after placebo to 276 +/- 68 h. pmol/ml and delayed formation of the major metabolite desmethylloperamide (time to reach maximum concentration after drug administration [t(max)], 7.1 +/- 2.6 hours versus 19.6 +/- 9.1 hours). The urinary metabolic ratio of loperamide increased 3 times whereas the total molar amount of loperamide and metabolites excreted in urine remained unchanged. No central pharmacodynamic effects were observed after coadministration of loperamide with either ritonavir or placebo. This study demonstrates a major metabolic interaction probably by cytochrome P4503A4 with no evidence of P-glycoprotein involvement. This might explain the lack of central effects after ritonavir.
21651314	Asenapine pharmacokinetics in hepatic and renal impairment.	The effects of hepatic or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of atypical antipsychotics are not well understood. Drug exposure may increase in patients with hepatic disease, owing to a reduction of certain metabolic enzymes. The objective of the present study was to study the effects of hepatic or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of asenapine and its N-desmethyl and N-glucuronide metabolites. Two clinical studies were performed to assess exposure to asenapine, desmethylasenapine and asenapine N-glucuronide in subjects with hepatic or renal impairment. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined from plasma concentration-time data, using standard noncompartmental methods. The pharmacokinetic variables that were studied included the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and the time to reach the maximum plasma concentration (t(max)). Eligible subjects, from inpatient and outpatient clinics, were aged 18 years with a body mass index of 18kg/m and 32 kg/m. Sublingual asenapine (Saphris) was administered as a single 5 mg dose. Thirty subjects participated in the hepatic impairment study (normal hepatic function, n = 8; mild hepatic impairment [Child-Pugh class A], n = 8; moderate hepatic impairment [Child-Pugh class B], n = 8; severe hepatic impairment [Child-Pugh class C], n = 6). Thirty-three subjects were enrolled in the renal impairment study (normal renal function, n = 9; mild renal impairment, n = 8; moderate renal impairment, n = 8; severe renal impairment, n = 8). Asenapine and N-desmethylasenapine exposures were unaltered in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, compared with healthy controls. Severe hepatic impairment was associated with increased area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC()) values for total asenapine, N-desmethylasenapine and asenapine N-glucuronide (5-, 3-, and 2-fold, respectively), with slight increases in the C(max) of asenapine but 3- and 2-fold decreases in the C(max) values for N-desmethylasenapine and asenapine N-glucuronide, respectively, compared with healthy controls. The mean AUC() of unbound asenapine was more than 7-fold higher in subjects with severe hepatic impairment than in healthy controls. Mild renal impairment was associated with slight elevations in the AUC() of asenapine compared with healthy controls; alterations observed with moderate and severe renal impairment were marginal. N-desmethylasenapine exposure was only slightly altered by renal impairment. No correlations were observed between exposure and creatinine clearance. Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) was associated with pronounced increases in asenapine exposure, but significant increases were not seen with mild (Child-Pugh class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment, or with any degree of renal impairment. Asenapine is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment; no dose adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, or in patients with renal impairment.
9021169	The biotransformation of isoprene and the two isoprene monoepoxides by human cytochrome P450 enzymes, compared to mouse and rat liver microsomes.	The metabolism of isoprene was investigated with microsomes derived from cell lines expressing human CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or CYP3A4. The formation of epoxide metabolites was determined by gas chromatographic analysis. CYP2E1 showed the highest rates of formation of the isoprene monoepoxides 3,4-epoxy-3-methyl-1-butene (EPOX-I) and 3,4-epoxy-2-methyl-1-butene (EPOX-II), followed by CYP2B6. CYP2E1 was the only enzyme showing detectable formation of the diepoxide of isoprene, 2-methyl-1,2:3,4-diepoxybutane. Both isoprene monoepoxides were oxidized by CYP2E1 to the diepoxide at similar enzymatic rates. In order to determine the relative role of CYP2E1 in hepatic metabolism, isoprene as well as the two monoepoxides were also incubated with a series of ten human liver microsomal preparations in the presence of the epoxide hydrolase inhibitor cyclohexene oxide. The obtained activities were correlated with activities towards specific substrates for CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A. The results were supportive for those obtained with single human P450 enzymes. Isoprene (monoepoxide) metabolism sowed a significant correlation with CYP2E1 activity, determined as chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation. CYP2E1 is therefore the major enzyme involved in hepatic metabolism of isoprene and the isoprene monoepoxides in vitro. To investigae species differences with regard to the role of epoxide hydrolase in the metabolism of isoprene monoepoxides, the epoxidation of isoprene by human liver microsomes was compared to that of mouse and rate liver microsomes. The amounts of monoepoxides formed as a balance between epoxidation and hydrolysis, was measured in incubations with and without the epoxide hydrolase inhibitor cyclohexene oxide. Inhibition of epoxide hydrolase resulted in similar rates of monoepoxide formation in mouse, rat and man. Without inhibitor, however, the total amount of monoepoxides present at the end of the incubation period was twice as high for mouse liver microsomes than for rat and even 15 times as high as for human liver microsomes. Thus, differences in epoxide hydrolase activity between species may be of crucial importance for the toxicity of isoprene in the various species.
16510126	Oxidative metabolism of 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine (Foxy) by human liver microsomes and recombinant cytochrome P450 enzymes.	In vitro quantitative studies of the oxidative metabolism of (5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine, 5-MeO-DIPT, Foxy) were performed using human liver microsomal fractions and recombinant CYP enzymes and synthetic 5-MeO-DIPT metabolites. 5-MeO-DIPT was mainly oxidized to O-demethylated (5-OH-DIPT) and N-deisopropylated (5-MeO-IPT) metabolites in pooled human liver microsomes. In kinetic studies, 5-MeO-DIPT O-demethylation showed monophasic kinetics, whereas its N-deisopropylation showed triphasic kinetics. Among six recombinant CYP enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4) expressed in yeast or insect cells, only CYP2D6 exhibited 5-MeO-DIPT O-demethylase activity, while CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 showed 5-MeO-DIPT N-deisopropylase activities. The apparent Km value of CYP2D6 was close to that for 5-MeO-DIPT O-demethylation, and the Km values of other CYP enzymes were similar to those of the low-Km (CYP2C19), intermediate-Km (CYP1A2, CYP2C8 and CYP3A4) and high-Km phases (CYP2C9), respectively, for N-deisopropylation in human liver microsomes. In inhibition studies, quinidine (1 microM), an inhibitor of CYP2D6, almost completely inhibited human liver microsomal 5-MeO-DIPT O-demethylation at a substrate concentration of 10 microM. Furafylline, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, quercetin, a CYP2C8 inhibitor, sulfaphenazole, a CYP2C9 inhibitor and ketoconazole, a CYP3A4 inihibitor (5 microM each) suppressed about 60%, 45%, 15% and 40%, respectively, of 5-MeO-DIPT N-deisopropylation at 50 microM substrate. In contrast, omeprazole (10 microM), a CYP2C19 inhibitor, suppressed only 10% of N-deisopropylation by human liver microsomes, whereas at the same concentration the inhibitor suppressed the reaction by recombinant CYP2C19 almost completely. These results indicate that CYP2D6 is the major 5-MeO-DIPT O-demethylase, and CYP1A2, CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 are the major 5-MeO-DIPT N-deisopropylase enzymes in the human liver.
22941375	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of IHL-305 (PEGylated liposomal irinotecan) in patients with advanced solid tumors.	IHL-305 is a novel PEGylated liposome containing irinotecan. This study examined the safety profile and pharmacokinetics of IHL-305 and established the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose (RP2D). In a standard 3+3 design, IHL-305 was administered IV on day 1 of a 28-day treatment schedule. Subsequently, a 14-day treatment schedule was also explored. Two patient populations were evaluated separately: Patients with at least one wild-type (wt) allele of UGT1A1 (UDP glucoronosyltransferase 1A1) wt/wt or wt/*28 as one group (referred to as UGT1A1 wt group) and patients with UGT1A1*28 homozygous variant (*28/*28) as another group. Sixty patients were treated: 42 on the 28-day schedule and 18 on the 14-day schedule. Seven patients were homozygous variant (*28/*28). In the UGT1A1 wt group, the MTD and RP2D of IHL-305 was 160mg/m(2) every 28days and 80mg/m(2) every 14days. DLTs included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and neutropenia. The most common adverse events were nausea (75%), vomiting (52%), diarrhea (62%), anorexia (57%), and fatigue (57%). At the MTD for both schedules, IHL-305 administration resulted in a high and prolonged exposure of sum total irinotecan, released irinotecan, and SN-38 in plasma. One partial response was observed in a patient with breast cancer and eight patients had stable disease for >6months. IHL-305, a novel preparation of irinotecan encapsulated in liposomes, can be safely given to patients in a repeated fashion on a 4- or 2-week dosing schedule.
1379387	The metabolism of cyclamate to cyclohexylamine and its cardiovascular consequences in human volunteers.	A group of 194 diabetic patients were given calcium cyclamate (1 g/day as cyclamic acid equivalents) for a period of 7 days. Blood and urine samples were collected to determine the formation of cyclohexylamine, which is an indirectly acting sympathomimetic amine. Blood pressure and heart rate were recorded before and after treatment. Urine samples were collected each day and analyzed for cyclamate (to check compliance) and cyclohexylamine (to monitor the development of metabolizing activity). After 7 days intake most individuals (78%) did not excrete significant amounts of cyclohexylamine (less than 0.1% of the daily dose of cyclamate) but a small number (8; 4% of the group) excreted more than 20% of the daily dose as cyclohexylamine in the urine. Similar interindividual variations were found in the plasma concentrations of cyclohexylamine after 7 days intake of cyclamate, with 8 individuals having concentrations of 300-1942 ng/ml. The changes in cardiovascular parameters in these 8 subjects between pre- and postdosing were similar to those found in 150 subjects with plasma cyclohexylamine concentrations less than 10 ng/ml. Twenty of the subjects were restudied after receiving calcium cyclamate for 2 weeks at a daily dose equivalent to 2 g of cyclamic acid (0.66 g tds). Plasma concentrations of cyclohexylamine, heart rate, and blood pressure were measured every 30 min for a period of 8 hr (one dose interval) after the final dose. Twelve patients had plasma concentrations of cyclohexylamine greater than 10 ng/ml (89-2043 ng/ml) at the start of the dose-interval investigations. There were no transient increases or decreases in plasma concentrations of cyclohexylamine which might have resulted in a transient change in blood pressure or heart rate. These data indicate that the metabolism of cyclamate (2 g/day) to cyclohexylamine would not affect blood pressure or heart rate even in individuals with high metabolizing ability.
17485255	Simultaneous quantification of cyclophosphamide and its active metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS).	Cyclophosphamide is a cytotoxic prodrug with a very narrow therapeutic index. To study the clinical pharmacology of cyclophosphamide in a large cohort of patients a previously published method for the simultaneous quantitative determination of cyclophosphamide and 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in human plasma using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was optimized. Addition of an isotopically labelled internal standard and adaptation of the gradient resulted in a fast, robust and sensitive assay. Because 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide is not stable in plasma, the compound is derivatized with semicarbazide immediately after sample collection. Sample preparation was carried out by protein precipitation with methanol-acetonitrile (1:1, v/v), containing isotopically labelled cyclophosphamide and hexamethylphosphoramide as internal standards. The LC separation was performed on a Zorbax Extend C18 column (150 mm x 2.1 mm ID, particle size 5 microm) with 1 mM ammonium hydroxide in water-acetonitrile (90:10, v/v) as the starting gradient, at a flow-rate of 0.40 mL/min with a total run time of 6 min. The lower limit of quantification (LLQ, using a 100 microL sample volume) was 200 ng/mL and the linear dynamic range extended to 40,000 ng/mL for cyclophosphamide and 50-5000 ng/mL for 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide. Accuracies as well as precisions were lower than 20% at the LLQ concentration and lower than 15% for all other concentrations. This method has been successfully applied in our institute to support ongoing studies into the pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetics of cyclophosphamide.
19874665	Validation of a spectrophotometric method for quantification of carboxyhemoglobin.	The measurement of carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels in blood is a valuable procedure to confirm exposure to carbon monoxide (CO) either for forensic or occupational matters. A previously described method using spectrophotometric readings at 420 and 432 nm after reduction of oxyhemoglobin (O(2)Hb) and methemoglobin with sodium hydrosulfite solution leads to an exponential curve. This curve, used with pre-established factors, serves well for lower concentrations (1-7%) or for high concentrations (> 20%) but very rarely for both. The authors have observed that small variations on the previously described factors F1, F2, and F3, obtained from readings for 100% COHb and 100% O(2)Hb, turn into significant changes in COHb% results and propose that these factors should be determined every time COHb is measured by reading CO and O(2) saturated samples. This practice leads to an increase in accuracy and precision.
17460031	Cytochrome P450 3A-dependent metabolism of a potent and selective gamma-aminobutyric acid Aalpha2/3 receptor agonist in vitro: involvement of cytochrome P450 3A5 displaying biphasic kinetics.	In vitro metabolism studies were conducted to determine the human cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) involved in the biotransformation of 7-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-6-(2-ethyl-2H-1,2,4-triazol-3-ylmethoxy)-3-(2-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3b]pyridazine (TPA023), a selective agonist of human gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor alpha2 and alpha3 subunits. Incubation of TPA023 with NADPH-fortified human liver microsomes resulted in the formation of t-butyl hydroxy TPA023, N-desethyl TPA023, and three minor metabolites. Both t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation reactions were greatly inhibited (>85%) in the presence of CYP3A-selective inhibitory antibodies and chemical inhibitors, indicating that members of the CYP3A subfamily play an important role in TPA023 metabolism. Eadie-Hofstee plots of t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation in pooled CYP3A5-rich human liver microsomes revealed a low K(m) (3.4 and 4.5 microM, respectively) and a high K(m) (12.7 and 40.0 microM, respectively) component. For both metabolites, the high K(m) component was not observed with a pool of microsomal preparations containing minimal levels of CYP3A5. Preincubation of liver microsomes with mifepristone (selectivity for CYP3A4 > CYP3A5) greatly inhibited both t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation (>75%); however, the residual activities were significantly higher in the pooled CYP3A5-rich liver microsomes (p < 0.0005). In addition, elevated levels of residual t-butyl hydroxylase and N-deethylase activities were observed in the presence of both CYP3A5-rich and CYP3A5-deficient preparations when the substrate concentration increased from 4 to 40 microM. In agreement, metabolite formation catalyzed by recombinant CYP3A5 was described by a biphasic model. It is concluded that CYP3A4 plays a major role in TPA023 metabolism, and CYP3A5 may also contribute at higher concentrations of the compound.
18435437	Quantification of free and protein-bound trans-resveratrol metabolites and identification of trans-resveratrol-C/O-conjugated diglucuronides - two novel resveratrol metabolites in human plasma.	The polyphenol trans-resveratrol (t-RES) is present as t-RES-3-O-beta-D-glycoside, termed piceid, in several plant-derived foods. Although data on the metabolism and on in vivo effects of t-RES have been reported, quantitative data on the metabolites formed after dietary intake of t-RES or piceid are still lacking. In this study, 85.5 mg of piceid per 70 kg of body weight (bw) were administered to healthy volunteers in a bolus dose. t-RES metabolites formed in plasma and urine were identified and quantified by LC-MS/MS, NMR, and HPLC-DAD analysis using chemically synthesized t-RES conjugate standards. In addition, the amount of t-RES metabolites bound noncovalently to plasma proteins was determined for the first time in humans. The metabolites identified and quantified were t-RES-3-sulfate, t-RES-3,4'-disulfate, t-RES-3,5-disulfate, t-RES-3-glucuronide and t-RES-4'-glucuronide, with t-RES-sulfates being the dominant conjugates in plasma and urine. Besides these metabolites, two novel t-RES-C/O-conjugated diglucuronides have been identified and quantified in plasma and urine. Moreover, it could be shown that up to 50% of the plasma t-RES-3-sulfate, t-RES-disulfates, and the novel t-RES-C/O-diglucuronides were bound to proteins. Total recovery of the dietary administered piceid in urine ranged between 13.6 and 35.7%.
3821382	Species differences in metabolism of ketotifen in rat, rabbit and man: demonstration of similar pathways in vivo and in cultured hepatocytes.	In vitro drug metabolism by cultured rat, rabbit and human adult hepatocytes has been studied, using ketotifen (ZADITEN) as a model substrate because it is biotransformed in vivo by various metabolic pathways in man and animals. The major in vivo pathways were demonstrated in vitro, namely oxidation in rat hepatocytes, oxidation, glucuronidation and sulfation in rabbit hepatocytes, reduction and glucuronidation in human hepatocytes. Human hepatocytes were the most stable in culture, displaying ketotifen biotransformation for at least one week. These results clearly demonstrated that cultured hepatocytes retain their in vivo specific drug metabolizing activities, including inter-species polymorphism, for a few days. Therefore, pure hepatocyte cultures represent a useful system suitable for drug metabolism studies.
11193895	Pharmacokinetics of orally administered camptothecins.	Phase I trials of oral camptothecins, including camptothecin (CPT) and irinotecan (CPT-11), have reported substantial interpatient variability in systemic exposure, which could result in suboptimal antitumor activity in some patients or enhanced risk for toxicity in others. This investigation evaluates the contribution of intestinal absorption and first-pass metabolism in the disposition of oral CPT and CPT-11, respectively. The transport of CPT in Caco-2 cell lines (validated model of intestinal drug transport) was concentration dependent and saturable (Vmax: 34 x 10(-5) cm/sec and Km: 20 microM), and was temperature dependent with an activation energy (Ea) of 11.7 kcal/mole. Cumulatively, this data was indicative of carrier-mediated intestinal transport. In addition, a reduction of transport in the presence of sodium azide plus deoxyglucose suggested ATP dependence. Thus, variable expression and availability of intestinal transporters could contribute to the observed wide variability in the exposure to oral CPT. CPT-11 is hydrolyzed by the ubiquitous enzyme carboxyl esterase to active SN-38, and first-pass metabolism of oral CPT-11 would include both intestinal and hepatic hydrolysis. Incubation of CPT-11 with S9 fractions of human liver and intestinal tissues resulted in variable rates of formation of SN-38. The mean (+/- SD) specific activities (pmoles/min/mg) were: liver (8.57 +/- 10.4, n = 8), duodenum (5.06 +/- 3.7, n = 4), jejunum (6.44 +/- 2.8, n = 5), ileum (4.81 +/- 2.4, n = 5), colon (1.93 +/- 1.5, n = 6), and rectum (0.82, n = 1). Interestingly, there was a decrease in SN-38 formation by tumor tissue compared to matched normal liver and colon tissues. Therefore variable first-pass metabolism could contribute to the substantial differences in the systemic exposures to CPT-11 and SN-38 in patients receiving oral CPT-11.
15712230	Development and validation of a liquid chromatographic/electrospray ionization mass spectrometric method for the quantitation of prazepam and its main metabolites in human plasma.	A method was developed and fully validated for the quantitation of prazepam and its major metabolites, oxazepam and nordiazepam, in human plasma. Sample pretreatment was achieved by solid-phase extraction using Oasis HLB cartridges. The extracts were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with single-quadrupole mass spectrometry (MS) with an electrospray ionization interface. The MS system was operated in the selected ion monitoring mode. HPLC was performed isocratically on a reversed-phase XTerra MS C18 analytical column (150 x 3.0 mm i.d., particle size 5 microm). Diazepam was used as the internal standard for quantitation. The assay was linear over a concentration range of 5.0-1000 ng ml(-1) for all compounds analyzed. The limit of quantitation was 5 ng ml(-1) for all compounds. Quality control samples (5, 10, 300 and 1000 ng ml(-1)) in five replicates from three different runs of analysis demonstrated an intra-assay precision (CV) of < or = 9.1%, an inter-assay precision of < or = 6.0% and an overall accuracy (relative error) of < 4.6%. The method can be used to quantify prazepam and its metabolites in human plasma covering a variety of pharmacokinetic or bioequivalence studies.
23954659	Reliable quantitation of -hydroxyethoxyacetic acid in human urine by an isotope-dilution GC-MS procedure.	An analytical method for the determination of -hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), the main urinary metabolite of 1,4-dioxane was developed and validated. The presented method involves liquid-liquid extraction of HEAA from the urine samples, followed by silylation and subsequent analytical separation and detection using GC-MS. The method is characterized by its simple and fast sample preparation in combination with a robust chromatography. The use of isotope dilution analysis enables an efficient compensation of matrix related effects and analyte losses due to sample workup. The excellent reliability and reproducibility of the method is demonstrated by the good accuracy and precision data. Within-day precision and day-to-day precision ranged from 0.6 to 1.2% and 1.5 to 2.6%, respectively. The mean relative recovery of the method was found to be 98-101%. The LOD and LOQ of HEAA were determined to be 0.2mg/L and 0.6mg/L, respectively. In summary, the presented analytical method is well suited to be used for routine biomonitoring of occupational exposure to 1,4-dioxane.
1788988	Investigations on the metabolic pathways of cyclosporine: II. Elucidation of the metabolic pathways in vitro by human liver microsomes.	1. Cyclosporine and its metabolites, isolated from human bile and identified by FAB mass spectrometry and 1H-n.m.r. spectroscopy, were metabolized by human liver microsomes for the identification of new cyclosporine metabolites. From these data a metabolic pathway for cyclosporine, which includes these new cyclosporine metabolites, has been proposed. The new metabolites were isolated by semi-preparative h.p.l.c. and their chemical structures were elucidated by FAB mass spectrometry. These isolated metabolites were further metabolized and the products identified by FAB mass spectrometry. 2. Fourteen metabolites, whose structure has not yet been elucidated, were isolated after metabolism of structurally identified cyclosporine metabolites, and chemical structures for five of these metabolites were proposed. 3. The structures of the new cyclosporine metabolites were: (i) a N-demethylated, carboxylated derivative (AM1A4N), (ii) a di-hydroxylated, N-demethylated derivative (AM14N9), (iii) a hydroxylated and carboxylated derivative (AM1A9), (iv) a di-hydroxylated, cyclized and N-demethylated derivative (AM1c4N9) and (v) a cyclized and carboxylated (AM1cA) derivative. 4. A proposed cyclosporine metabolic pathway comprises a total of 29 metabolites. It consists of four main branches originating from metabolites AM1, AM1c, AM9 and AM4N.
8475694	Therapeutic experiences with 947 epileptic out-patients in oxcarbazepine treatment.	Efficacy and tolerability of the new antiepileptic drug oxcarbazepine, was evaluated in a retrospective multicentre study. The records of all 947 epilepsy patients treated with oxcarbazepine in the eight participating centres from 1981 through 1990 were examined. The median daily dose of oxcarbazepine was 30 mg/kg in children, 18 mg/kg in adults, and 15 mg/kg in elderly patients, given b.i.d. or t.i.d. The mean plasma levels of the main active metabolite of oxcarbazepine was 88, 79, and 68 mumol/l in children, adults, and elderly, respectively. In patients shifted to oxcarbazepine treatment, seizure frequency was unchanged in 51-66%, 32-48% had a decrease, and 1-10% an increase in seizure frequency, considering the individual seizure types separately. Adverse events were reported in one third of patients, most frequently affecting the CNS (dizziness: 6%; sedation: 6%; fatigue: 6%). Rash was reported in 6% of patients, half of these patients had previously had an allergic reaction to carbamazepine. Hyponatremia was found in about a quarter of the patients from whom data were available. No congenital malformations were seen in nine live-born, first trimester oxcarbazepine-exposed children.
21820498	Clioquinol is sulfated by human jejunum cytosol and SULT1A3, a human-specific dopamine sulfotransferase.	Clioquinol, originally marketed as an oral intestinal amebicide, was widely used for multiple intestinal disorders. Its use as an oral agent was, however, discontinued because of its possible association with subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy or SMON. Meanwhile, its use for neurodegenerative diseases has recently been suggested. The metabolic fate of clioquinol, however, is poorly described. Since clioquinol is excreted as a sulfate in animals and humans, we have sought to identify a human sulfotransferase (SULT) responsible for the sulfation. We found that sulfating activities of human jejunal cytosols to clioquinol were well correlated with those to dopamine, a typical SULT1A3 substrate. Consistently, recombinant SULT1A3 showed the highest activity to clioquinol in vitro among the human SULTs examined. The S(50) value for the clioquinol sulfation by SULT1A3 was similar to the K(m) value for that by cytosols from human jejunum, where SULT1A3 is abundantly expressed. Moreover, clioquinol inhibited both human jejunal cytosol- and SULT1A3-mediated sulfations of dopamine in a dose-dependent manner, showing similar IC(50) values. These results suggest that SULT1A3, which is highly expressed in intestine but not in liver, is responsible for the clioquinol sulfation in humans, raising a possibility that orally administered clioquinol might inhibit dopamine sulfation in human intestines.
17173379	Inhibition of cytochrome P450 3A4 by a pyrimidineimidazole: Evidence for complex heme interactions.	PH-302 inhibits the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) by coordinating with the heme of the monomeric form and preventing formation of the active dimer. Inherent with the mechanism of pharmacology for this compound was the inhibition of cytochrome P450 3A4 (P450 3A4), observed from early ADME screening. Further investigation showed that PH-302 inhibited P450 3A4 competitively with a Ki of approximately 2.0 microM against both midazolam and testosterone hydroxylation in human liver microsomes. As expected, spectral binding analysis demonstrated that inhibition was a result of type II coordination to the P450 heme with the imidazole moiety of PH-302, although only 72% of the maximal absorbance difference was achievable with PH-302 compared to that of the smaller ligand imidazole. Time-dependent inhibition of P450 3A4 by PH-302 was also observed because of metabolite-inhibitory (MI) complex formation via metabolism of the methylenedioxyphenyl group. The profile for time-dependent inhibition in recombinant P450 3A4 was biphasic, and was kinetically characterized by a kinact of 0.08 min-1 and a Ki of 1.2 microM for the first phase (0-1.5 min) and a kinact of 0.06 min-1 and a Ki of 23.8 microM for the second phase (1.5-10 min). Spectral characterization of the PH-302 MI complex demonstrated that formation began to plateau within 3 min, consistent with the kinetic profile of inactivation by PH-302. Meanwhile, spectral evidence for the imidazole-derived type II difference spectrum of PH-302 was captured simultaneously with the formation of the MI complex. The presence of simultaneously operable type II coordination and rapidly saturable MI complex formation with heme by PH-302 indicates the presence of complex heme interactions with this unique molecule. Information from these mechanistic studies adds to our understanding of the nature of P450 3A4 inhibition by PH-302 and provides a potentially useful tool compound for future studies investigating binding interactions in this important drug-metabolizing enzyme.
22608806	Uptake and metabolism of olive oil polyphenols in human breast cancer cells using nano-liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry.	Polyphenols from extra virgin olive oil (EVOO), a main component of the Mediterranean diet, have demonstrated repeatedly anti-tumor activity in several in vitro and in vivo studies. However, little is known about the efficiency of the absorption process and metabolic conversion of these compounds at cellular level. In this study, a nano liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (nanoLC-ESI-TOF MS) method was developed to study the cellular uptake and metabolism of olive oil phenols in JIMT-1 human breast cancer cells. After incubation for different time periods with EVOO-derived phenolic extracts, culture media, cytosolic fraction and solid particles fraction were separated and analyzed. Most of the free phenols, mainly hydroxytyrosol, its secoiridoid derivatives, and the flavonoid luteolin, disappeared in the culture media in different ways and at different times. Besides, several metabolites were detected in the culture media, fact that may indicate absorption and intracellular metabolism followed by rapid cellular export. Low intracellular accumulation was observed with only traces of some compounds detected in the cytosolic and solid particles fractions. Methylated conjugates were the major metabolites detected, suggesting a catalytic action of catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) in cancer cells.
15951449	Canalicular and sinusoidal disposition of bilirubin mono- and diglucuronides in sandwich-cultured human and rat primary hepatocytes.	Due to cholestasis or adverse drug effects, the excretion of bilirubin conjugates can decrease; therefore, the level of bilirubin (B) and bilirubin glucuronides (BGs) increases in the serum with the concomitant shift of bilirubin diversus monoglucuronide (BDG/BMG) equilibrium. The aim of this study was to utilize the collagen-sandwich culture of hepatocytes as an in vitro model for studying B conjugation and canalicular versus sinusoidal disposition of BGs. Canalicular and sinusoidal efflux of BMG and BDG obtained in sandwich-cultured rat primary hepatocytes was compared with that measured in human hepatocyte cultures. The BMG and BDG were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and identified by mass spectrometry. The biliary excretion index (BEI) was estimated by measuring disposition of BGs into standard and Ca(2+), Mg(2+)-free medium. Significantly more BGs were excreted into the canalicular networks than into the medium in 96-h sandwich culture of both human and rat hepatocytes (BEI, 62.5 and 80.6, respectively). The BDG/BMG ratio in the medium versus that in the canalicular networks was 0.55/1.48, which is similar to the serum/bile values (0.6/1.5) observed in vivo by Mesa et al. [Mesa VA, De Vos R, and Fevery J (1997) J Hepatol 27:912-916]. In contrast, the BEI for p-nitrophenol glucuronide was 5.2. The low BEI value is in agreement with empirical observations, which suggest that molecules with low molecular weight are preferably excreted by the kidney. In conclusion, sandwich-cultured primary hepatocytes provide a useful in vitro method to differentiate between sinusoidal and canalicular disposition of BGs. Since the normal BDG/BMG ratio changes in hyperbilirubinemia, this model could be used to predict drug effects leading to hyperbilirubinemia.
21964418	Characterization of inhibitory effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate on human hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes: focusing on CYP2A6.	Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is a chemically stable compound extensively used as oil and water repellent, surface active agents in our daily life. Accumulative research evidence gradually appears the toxicity of PFOS against mammals, but the whole figure remains to be elucidated. The present study was conducted to know the effects of PFOS on human hepatic drug metabolizing-type cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes such as CYP1A2 (7-ethoxyresorufin as a substrate), CYP2A6 (coumarin), CYP2B6 (7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin), CYP2C8 (paclitaxel), CYP2C9 (diclofenac), CYP2C19 (S-mephenytoin), CYP2D6 (bufuralol), CYP2E1 (chlorzoxazone) and CYP3A4 (testosterone) in human livers employing their typical substrates. Although all of the oxidation reactions tested were more or less inhibited by PFOS, diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation mediated mainly by CYP2C9 was most strongly inhibited (K(i) value of 40 nM), followed by paclitaxel 6-hydroxylation mediated mainly by CYP2C8 (K(i) value of 4 M). The substrate oxidation reactions catalyzed by CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 were moderately (K(i) values of 35 to 45 M), and those by CYP1A2, CYP2D6 and CYP2E1 were weakly inhibited by PFOS (K(i) values of 190-300 M). The inhibition by PFOS for coumarin 7-hydroxylation mainly catalyzed by human liver microsomal CYP2A6 as well as by the recombinant enzyme was found to be enhanced by the preincubation of PFOS with human liver microsomes and NADPH as compared to the case without preincubation. The inhibition of the human liver microsomal cumarin 7-hydroxylation was PFOS concentration-dependent, and exhibited pseudo-first-order kinetics with respect to preincubation time, yielding K(inact) and K(I) values of 0.06 min(-1) and 23 M, respectively. These results suggest that the metabolism of medicines which are substrates for CYP2C9 may be altered by PFOS in human bodies, and that PFOS is a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP2A6.
21087115	Application of cytochrome P450 BM3 mutants as biocatalysts for the profiling of estrogen receptor binding metabolites of the mycotoxin zearalenone.	The estrogenic mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEN) can undergo hepatic reductive metabolism to form the estrogenic  and  isomers of zearalenol. ZEN also undergoes cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (P450)-mediated oxidative metabolism to form monohydroxylated products, but until now nothing is known about the estrogenic potency of these metabolites. This study aimed at investigating the metabolism of ZEN by different P450 isoforms and to determine the estrogen receptor  (ER) affinities of the in vitro P450-generated ZEN metabolites in an online high-resolution screening (HRS) setup. Human liver microsomes (HLM), recombinant P450s, and mutants of the bacterial P450 BM3 were used to investigate the oxidative metabolism of ZEN. It was shown that mutants of the bacterial P450 BM3 could be used to produce the human relevant 13- and 15-OH-ZEN catechol metabolites at such levels that their ER affinity could be determined in an HRS setup, which was not possible with HLM. It was demonstrated that P450-mediated hydroxylation at the 13 and 15 positions of ZEN resulted in a loss of ER affinity. The approach presented here can be used for the elucidation of the metabolism of other endocrine disrupting compounds and xenobiotics to get clear pictures of the total effects of these compounds and their metabolites.
22534255	Effects of ketoconazole and rifampicin on the pharmacokinetics of gemigliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibitor: a crossover drug-drug interaction study in healthy male Korean volunteers.	Gemigliptin (LC15-0444) is a newly developed selective and competitive inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP)-4 and has potential for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Gemigliptin is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 isozyme to yield the active major metabolite LC15-0636. The effects of multiple oral doses of ketoconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) and multiple oral doses of rifampicin (a potent CYP3A4 inducer) on the pharmacokinetic properties of a single oral dose of gemigliptin were evaluated in fasting healthy male Korean volunteers. In this open-label, 2-part, 3-treatment, 1-sequence, 2-period crossover drug-drug interaction study, 1 group of subjects received a single 50-mg oral dose of gemigliptin on 2 separate occasions-once as monotherapy and again after pretreatment with 400 mg of oral ketoconazole once daily for 7 days. The other group of subjects received a single 50-mg oral dose of gemigliptin on 2 separate occasions-once without pretreatment and again after pretreatment with 600 mg of oral rifampicin once daily for 10 days. Blood samples were obtained at 0 (predose), 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours after gemigliptin dosing. Plasma concentrations were determined using LC-MS/MS. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated via noncompartmental methods. Tolerability was assessed using measurements of vital signs, clinical chemistry tests, and interviews. Twenty-four subjects were enrolled (12 per group). Concurrent administration of ketoconazole was associated with increased total gemigliptin plasma exposure (AUC(0-); 2.36-fold [90% CI, 2.19-2.54]) and decreased metabolism of gemigliptin until negligible concentrations of LC15-0636 were detected. Pretreatment with rifampicin was associated with decreased AUC(0-) of gemigliptin (by 80% [90% CI, 78%-82%]) and a 2.9-fold increase (mean [SD], 0.18 [0.08] to 0.52 [0.10]) in the metabolic ratio of gemigliptin to LC15-0636. The treatments were well-tolerated, with no severe adverse events reported. Six of the 24 subjects (25%) experienced AEs during the first period of gemigliptin monotherapy administration. Six of 12 subjects (50%) each experienced AEs during concurrent administration with ketoconazole and rifampicin. In this select group of healthy male Korean volunteers, concurrent administration of gemigliptin with ketoconazole or rifampicin was associated with significantly increased or decreased systemic exposure to gemigliptin, respectively. These findings suggest that gemigliptin may require a dose adjustment when concurrently administered with drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity. Concurrent administration of gemigliptin with ketoconazole or rifampicin was well tolerated. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01426906.
12271274	Role of extracellular ATP metabolism in regulation of platelet reactivity.	Extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) regulates platelet reactivity by way of direct action on platelet purinergic receptors or by hydrolysis to adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Subsequent metabolism of ATP and ADP to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine inhibits platelet aggregation. Endothelial cell membrane-bound ecto-ATP/ADPase (CD39, E-NTPDase1) is thought to be the main regulator of platelet responsiveness. However, the findings in studies of CD39-knockout mice imply that nucleotidase(s) in plasma regulates circulating adenine nucleotides levels. Understanding extracellular ATP metabolism by CD39 and plasma nucleotidases is therefore important. In this study, alpha-phosphorus 32- and gamma-phosphorus 32-labeled ATP were rapidly metabolized directly to AMP and pyrophosphate in human plasma at pH 7.4, suggesting the presence of pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-like activity. A specific phosphodiesterase substrate, p-nitrophenol-5'-TMP (p-Nph-5'-TMP), was readily hydrolyzed in human plasma. The antiaggregatory action of beta,gamma-methylene-ATP (AMPPCP) (5 micromol/L) was blocked by DMPX, an adenosine-receptor antagonist, suggesting that in plasma, AMPPCP was metabolized to AMP and adenosine. Recombinant soluble CD39 (solCD39) was used to assess the role of CD39 in ATP metabolism. As little as 0.25 microg/mL of solCD39 inhibited ADP-induced platelet aggregation. However, in the presence of ADP-free ATP (10 micromol/L), solCD39 induced platelet aggregation in a dose-dependent manner. Because AMPPCP could not substitute for ATP in solCD39-stimulated platelet aggregation, it is likely that ADP formation from ATP was required. Endogenous CD39 may thus have a hemostatic function by promoting ADP formation from released ATP, in addition to its antiaggregatory properties. A plasma nucleotidase hydrolyzes ATP directly to AMP. This prevents ADP accumulation and generates adenosine, a potent, locally acting inhibitor of platelet reactivity. The presence of both endothelial CD39 and plasma nucleotidase appears to be important in the maintenance of normal hemostasis and prevention of excessive platelet responsiveness.
16174807	Prediction of metabolic clearance using cryopreserved human hepatocytes: kinetic characteristics for five benzodiazepines.	Predictions of intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) from human liver microsomes often underestimate in vivo observations. In this study, a series of five benzodiazepines was used as prototypic CYP3A4 substrates to investigate the prediction of clearance from the less studied alternative in vitro system, cryopreserved human hepatocytes. Formation of the two major metabolites from midazolam, triazolam, diazepam, flunitrazepam, and alprazolam was measured in cryopreserved human hepatocytes from five donors; the kinetics were characterized and CL(int) values were determined and scaled to predict CL(int) in vivo. At least one of the two major pathways of metabolic clearance of each benzodiazepine was characterized by autoactivation in hepatocytes; the extent to which this occurred varied depending on substrate and liver (up to 8-fold). Heteroactivation by testosterone of these pathways was also observed (up to 6-fold). The maximum autoactivated clearance was used to predict in vivo CL(int) (1.6-138 ml/min/kg) which closely agreed with values previously obtained using human liver microsomes. Comparison with in vivo CL(int) indicates that cryopreserved human hepatocytes systematically underpredict CL(int). When three previous studies (documenting CL(int) for substrates of various enzymes in cryopreserved human hepatocytes using drug depletion-time profiles) were considered as well, the combined data show a consistent underprediction of 5.6-fold. Collectively it is demonstrated that the predicted hepatic intrinsic clearances from cryopreserved hepatocytes show an excellent rank order with in vivo findings but are systematically underpredicting the in vivo value.
16132150	Quantification of urinary conjugates of bisphenol A, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone in humans by online solid phase extraction-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Urinary concentrations of phenols or their metabolites have been used as biomarkers to assess the prevalence of exposure to these compounds in the general population. Total urinary concentrations, which include both free and conjugated (glucuronide and sulfated) forms of the compounds, are usually reported. From a toxicologic standpoint, the relative concentrations of the free species compared with their conjugated analogs can be important because conjugation may reduce the potential biologic activity of the phenols. In this study, we determined the percentage of glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of three phenolic compounds, bisphenol A (BPA), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), and 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone (benzophenone-3, BP-3) in 30 urine samples collected between 2000 and 2004 from a demographically diverse group of anonymous adult volunteers. We used a sensitive on-line solid phase extraction-isotope dilution-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. These three phenols were detected frequently in the urine samples tested. Only small percentages of the compounds (9.5% for BPA, and 3% for 2,5-DCP and BP-3) were excreted in their free form. The percentage of the sulfate conjugate was about twice that of the free compound. The glucuronide conjugate was the major metabolite, representing 69.5% (BPA), 89% (2,5-DCP), and 84.6% (BP-3) of the total amount excreted in urine. These results are in agreement with those reported before which suggested that BPA-glucuronide was an important BPA urinary metabolite in humans. To our knowledge, this is the first study describing the distribution of urinary conjugates of BP-3 and 2,5-DCP in humans.
23290298	Analysis of quazepam and its metabolites in human urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry: application to a forensic case.	A sensitive method for the simultaneous determination of quazepam and two of its metabolites, 2-oxoquazepam and 3-hydroxy-2-oxoquazepam, in human urine was developed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) with an Rtx-5MS capillary column. The quazepam and its metabolites were extracted from human urine using a simple solid-phase extraction Oasis() HLB cartridge column, and the 3-hydroxy-2-oxoquazepam was derivatised using BSTFA/1%TMCS and pyridine at 60 C for 30 min. The mass spectrometric detection of the analytes was performed in the full scan mode, m/z 60-480, and selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode, m/z 386, for quazepam; m/z 342, for 2-oxoquazepam; m/z 429, for 3-hydroxy-2-oxoquazepam-TMS; and m/z 284, for alprazolam-d5 (internal standard), by electron ionization. The calibration curves of quazepam and its metabolites in urine showed good linearity in the concentration range of 2.5-500 ng/0.2 ml of urine. The average recoveries of quazepam and its metabolites from 0.2 ml of urine containing 500 ng and 50 ng of each drug were 71-83% and 88-90%, respectively. The limits of detection of quazepam, 2-oxoquazepam and 3-hydroxy-2-quazepam in urine by the selected ion monitoring mode were 0.096-0.37 ng/ml. This method would be applicable to other forensic biological materials containing low concentrations of quazepam and its metabolites.
15843492	Glucuronidation of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: identifying the enzymes responsible in human liver microsomes.	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), used for the treatment of pain and inflammation, are eliminated primarily through conjugation with polar sugar moieties to form glucuronides. Glucuronidation is catalyzed by the UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) superfamily. An inverse relationship may exist between glucuronidation activity and NSAID efficacy; however, specific UGTs catalyzing conjugation of the structurally diverse NSAIDs have yet to be identified systematically. Therefore, NSAID glucuronidation activity by 12 individually expressed UGTs was investigated by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The relative rates of NSAID glucuronidation varied among UGT enzymes examined, demonstrating specificity of the individual UGTs toward selected NSAIDs. Kinetic parameters were determined for expressed UGT Supersomes and compared with parameters determined in pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs). Comparison of K(m) values suggested roles for UGTs 1A3 and 2B7 in indene glucuronidation and UGTs 1A9, 2B4, and 2B7 in profen glucuronidation. Inhibitory studies in pooled HLMs support the role of UGTs 1A1, 1A3, 1A9, 2B4, and 2B7 in the glucuronidation of ibuprofen, flurbiprofen, and ketoprofen. Bilirubin did not inhibit indomethacin or diclofenac glucuronidation, suggesting that UGT1A1 was not involved in catalysis. Imipramine did not inhibit glucuronidation of sulindac, sulindac sulfone, indomethacin, or naproxen in pooled HLMs, suggesting that UGT1A3 was not a principal hepatic catalyst. Nevertheless, multiple UGT enzymes, most notably UGTs 1A1, 1A9, 2B4, and 2B7, seem to be involved in the hepatic catalysis of NSAID glucuronidation.
18258494	Fast determination of urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and S-benzylmercapturic acid (S-BMA) by column-switching liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Benzene and toluene are important industrial chemicals and ubiquitous environmental pollutants. The urinary mercapturic acids of benzene and toluene, S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and S-benzylmercapturic acids (S-BMA) are specific biomarkers for the determination of low-level exposures. We have developed and validated a fast, specific and very sensitive method for the simultaneous determination of S-PMA and S-BMA in human urine using an automated multidimensional LC-MS-MS-method that requires no additional sample preparation. Analytes are stripped from urinary matrix by online extraction on a restricted access material, transferred to the analytical column and subsequently determined by tandem mass spectrometry using isotopically labelled S-PMA as internal standard. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) for both analytes was 0.05 microg/L urine and sufficient to quantify the background exposure of the general population. Precision within series and between series for S-PMA and S-BMA ranged from 1.0% to 12.2%, accuracy was 108% and 100%, respectively. We applied the method on spot urine samples of 30 subjects of the general population with no known exposure to benzene or toluene. Median levels (range) for S-PMA and S-BMA in non-smokers (n=15) were 0.14 microg/L (<0.05-0.26 microg/L) and 8.2 (1.6-77.4 microg/L), respectively. In smokers (n=15), median levels for S-PMA and S-BMA were 1.22 microg/L (0.17-5.75 microg/L) and 11.5 microg/L (0.9-51.2 microg/L), respectively. Due to its automation, our method is well suited for application in large environmental studies.
8852534	Metabolic interaction between fluoxetine and clomipramine: a case report.	An 83-year-old patient suffering from a depressive episode was treated with a combination of clomipramine and fluoxetine. As no marked improvement was observed and cardiac side-effects were observed, a blood sample was taken for therapeutic drug monitoring. The result showed that the concentrations of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine were very high (i.e. in the subtoxic range). A metabolic interaction was suspected and both antidepressants were immediately discontinued. Over time, concentrations of clomipramine and its metabolite decreased slowly and, simultaneously, the mood improved and side-effects disappeared. When clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine concentrations reached the lower limit of the optimal therapeutic range, monotherapy was restarted with clomipramine, and the patient improved enough to be discharged from the hospital.
9272124	Salivary drug monitoring of irinotecan and its active metabolite in cancer patients.	To assess the clinical usefulness of salivary monitoring of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its active metabolite (SN-38), we examined the clinical pharmacological profile of both drugs in 9 patients with thoracic malignancies who received 60 mg/m2 CPT-11 (21 courses). Plasma and unstimulated whole saliva were collected over a 24-h period, and concentrations of CPT-11 and SN-38 were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Both CPT-11 and SN-38 were detectable in saliva, and the concentration-time curves in plasma and saliva showed a very similar pattern. A good correlation was observed between the saliva concentration (C3) and the plasma concentration (Cp) for both CPT-11 and SN-38 (r = 0.732, P < 0.0001 and r = 0.611, P < 0.0001, respectively). The area under the concentration-time curve calculated for saliva (AUCs) correlated with that generated for plasma (AUCp) for both CPT-11 and SN-38 (r = 0.531, P = 0.012 and r = 0.611, P = 0.0025, respectively). These results suggest that it may be feasible to use saliva instead of plasma for pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics studies of CPT-11.
20959525	Aclidinium bromide, a long-acting antimuscarinic, does not affect QT interval in healthy subjects.	In this phase I trial, the effect of aclidinium, a novel, inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist, on QT interval was evaluated, and its cardiovascular safety was assessed in 272 healthy subjects. Aclidinium 200 g, aclidinium 800 g, matching placebo, or open-label moxifloxacin 400 mg was administered daily for 3 days. The primary outcome was mean change in individual heart rate-corrected QT interval (QTcI). Secondary measures included Bazett-corrected QT interval (QTcB), Fridericia-corrected (QTcF) intervals, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) readings, and 24-hour 12-lead Holter ECG parameters. Adverse events, vital signs, and laboratory and pharmacokinetic parameters were also assessed. Maximum mean QTcI change from time-matched baseline on day 3 was -1.0 milliseconds at 2 hours for aclidinium 200 g, -1.8 milliseconds at 5 minutes for 800 g, +11.0 milliseconds at 4 hours for moxifloxacin, and -1.2 milliseconds at 23.5 hours for placebo. Aclidinium had no significant effects on secondary ECG measures. Aclidinium plasma concentrations were generally below the lower limit of quantitation (0.05 ng/mL) after 200 g and were detected only up to 1 hour after the 800-g dose in the majority of cases. It is concluded that aclidinium bromide, at doses up to 800 g, has a favorable cardiovascular safety profile with no effect on QT interval.
14555336	Identification of cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of 4'-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (MOPPP), a designer drug, in human liver microsomes.	1. The metabolism of 4'-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (MOPPP), a novel designer drug, to its demethylated major metabolite 4'-hydroxy-pyrrolidinopropio-phenone (HO-PPP) was studied in pooled human liver microsomes (HLM) and in cDNA-expressed human hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. 2. CYP2C19 catalysed the demethylation with apparent Km and Vmax values of 373.4 +/- 45.1 microM and 6.0 +/- 0.3 pmol min(-1) pmol(-1) CYP, respectively (mean +/- SD). Both CYP2D6 and HLM exhibited clear biphasic profiles with apparent K(m,1) values of 1.3 +/- 0.4 and 22.0 +/- 6.5 microM, respectively, and V(max,1) values of 1.1 +/- 0.1 pmol min(-1) pmol(-1) CYP and 169.1 +/- 20.5 pmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein, respectively. 3. Percentages of intrinsic clearances of MOPPP by particular CYPs were calculated using the relative activity factor (RAF) approach with (S)-mephenytoin-4'-hydroxylation or bufuralol-1'-hydroxylation as index reactions for CYP2C19 or CYP2D6, respectively. 4. MOPPP, HO-PPP and the standard 3',4'-methylenedioxy-pyrrolidinopropio-phenone (MDPPP) were separated and analysed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in the selected-ion monitoring (SIM) mode. 5. The CYP2D6 specific chemical inhibitor quinidine (3 microM) significantly (p<0.0001) inhibited HO-PPP formation by 91.8 +/- 0.5% (mean +/- SEM) in incubation mixtures with HLM and 2 microM MOPPP. 6. It can be concluded from the data obtained from kinetic and inhibition studies that polymorphically expressed CYP2D6 is the enzyme mainly responsible for MOPPP demethylation.
15228048	Anthocyanin metabolites in human urine and serum.	In the present study we investigated the metabolic conversion of cyanidin glycosides in human subjects using solid-phase extraction,HPLC-diode array detector, MS, GC, and enzymic techniques. Volunteers consumed approximately 20 g chokeberry extract containing 1.3 g cyanidin 3-glycosides (899 mg cyanidin 3-galactoside, 321 mg cyanidin 3-arabinoside, 51 mg cyanidin 3-xyloside and 50 mg cyanidin 3-glucoside). Blood samples were drawn at 0, 0.5, 1, and 2 h post-consumption of the extract. Urine samples were also collected at 0, 4-5,and 22-24h. We have confirmed that human subjects have the capacity to metabolise cyanidin 3-glycosides, as we observed at least ten individual anthocyanin metabolites in the urine and serum. Average concentrations of anthocyanins and anthocyanin metabolites in the urine reached levels of 17.9 (range 14.9-20.9) l.mol/l within 5 h post-consumption and persisted in 24h urine samples at levels of 12.1 (range 11.1-13.0) nmol/l. In addition, average total levels of anthocyanins and anthocyanin metabolites detected in the serum were observed at 5917 (range 197.3-986.1) nmol/ within 2h post-consumption. Cyanidin 3-galactoside accounted for 55.4% (9.9(range 7-2-12-6) l.mol/) and 66.0% (390.6 (range 119.4-661-9) nmol V) of the detected anthocyanins in the urine and serum samples,respectively. The metabolites were identified as glucuronide conjugates, as well as methylated and oxidised derivatives of cyanidin 3-galactoside and cyanidin glucuronide. Conjugation probably affects the biological activity of anthocyanins and these metabolic products are likely in part responsible for the reported health benefits associated with the consumption of anthocyanins.
7215002	Biliary excretion of cefuroxime. Experimental and human study.	The biliary excretion of cefuroxime was studied experimentally, using a preparation of isolated rabbit liver (n = 5) perfused in vitro during 3 h; 0.92% of the cefuroxime (10 mg) added to the circulating blood was found in the bile, while peak antibiotic activity reached a mean value of 8.0 +/- 1.1 microgram/ml. In man, 1 h after a single intravenous injection of cefuroxime (0.5 g), a maximum concentration of 4.0 +/- 1.6 microgram/ml was found in the duodenal aspiration fluid collected from 5 healthy subjects. In 10 patients with T-tube drainage, a mean biliary peak of 10.3 +/- 2.4 microgram/ml was observed 2 h after intravenous injection of the same dose; the biliary excretion of cefuroxime during the 12-hour experiment corresponded to 0.13% of the administered dose. Assays performed during cholecystectomy in 10 patients 1 h after cefuroxime intravenous injection of 0.5 g showed concentrations of 11.9 +/- 0.8 microgram/ml in the serum, 12.0 +/- 1.5 microgram/ml in the common duct bile and 7.4 +/- 1.1 microgram/ml in the gallbladder bile. These results were compared with those observed after administration of 11 other beta-lactam antibiotics in identical experimental and clinical conditions.
20810539	In vitro evaluation of inhibitory effects of antidiabetic and antihyperlipidemic drugs on human carboxylesterase activities.	Human carboxylesterase (CES) 1A is responsible for the biotransformation of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as imidapril and temocapril. Because antidiabetic or antihyperlipidemic drugs are often coadministered with ACE inhibitors in clinical pharmacotherapy, the inhibitory effect of these drugs on CES1A1 enzyme activity was investigated. In addition, the inhibitory effect on CES2 enzyme activity was evaluated to compare it with that on CES1A1. The inhibitory effects were evaluated with 11 antidiabetic and 12 antihyperlipidemic drugs. The imidapril hydrolase activity by recombinant CES1A1 was substantially inhibited by lactone ring-containing statins such as simvastatin and lovastatin and thiazolidinediones such as troglitazone and rosiglitazone. The activity in human liver microsomes was also strongly inhibited by simvastatin and troglitazone (K(i) = 0.8  0.1 and 5.6  0.2 M, respectively). However, statins containing no lactone ring such as pravastatin and fluvastatin did not show strong inhibition. 7-Ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidono)-1-piperidono]carbonyloxycamptothecin hydrolase activity by recombinant human CES2 was substantially inhibited by fenofibrate (K(i) = 0.04  0.01 M) as well as by simvastatin (0.67  0.09 M). Other fibrates such as clinofibrate and bezafibrate did not show strong inhibition. Thus, the inhibitory effects of the thiazolidinediones and fenofibrate on CES1A1 and CES2 were different. Some statins such as simvastatin and lovastatin, thiazolidinediones, and fenofibrate might attenuate the drug efficacy of prodrugs biotransformed by CES1A and CES2.
18158222	The delivery and antinociceptive effects of morphine and its ester prodrugs from lipid emulsions.	Long-acting analgesia is critical for patients suffering from long-acting pain. The purpose of this study was to develop lipid emulsions as parenteral drug delivery systems for morphine and its ester prodrugs. Morphine prodrugs with various alkyl chain lengths, including morphine propionate (MPR), morphine enanthate (MEN), and morphine decanoate (MDE), were synthesized. The prodrugs were stable against chemical hydrolysis in an aqueous solution, but were quickly hydrolyzed to the parent drug when exposed to esterase and plasma. Lipid emulsions were prepared using phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) as an emulsifier, while squalene was used as an inner oil phase. Drug release was found to be a function of the drug/prodrug lipophilicity, with a lower release rate for more-lipophilic drug/prodrugs. The inclusion of morphine and its prodrugs into lipid emulsions retarded their release. Lipid emulsions, which incorporated cholesterol, generally exhibited a drug/prodrug release comparable to that of emulsions without co-emulsifiers. Pluronic F68 (PF68) further slowed down the release of morphine and its prodrugs from the emulsions. The antinociceptive activity through the parenteral administration of these emulsions was examined using a cold ethanol tail-flick study. Compared with an aqueous solution, a prolonged analgesic duration was detected after application of the drug/prodrug emulsions. Incorporation of co-emulsifiers such as PF68 and cholesterol further increased the duration of action. The combination of prodrug strategy and lipid emulsions may be practically useful for improving analgesic therapy with morphine.
18826868	Bioequivalence of oxcarbazepine oral suspension vs. film-coated tablet in healthy Chinese male subjects.	Oxcarbazepine (Trileptal) is an antiepileptic drug used as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults and children. The primary objective of this study was to assess the bioequivalence of Trileptal oral suspension formulation vs. the film-coated tablet after single and multiple twice-daily administrations in fasted, healthy Chinese male subjects. This was an open-label, randomized, two-period crossover study in 19 healthy Chinese male subjects. Treatment periods consisted of a single dose of 300 mg oxcarbazepine (either oral suspension formulation or film-coated tablet) on Day 1, b.i.d. administrations of 300 mg from Day 4 to Day 8 inclusive, and a final dose of 300 mg on the morning of Day 9. A 1-week washout period was implemented between treatment periods. Plasma levels of 10-monohydroxy derivative (MHD), the main metabolite mediating the pharmacologic activity of oxcarbazepine, were measured by a validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method. Bioequivalence was assessed by the MHD areas under the concentration time curve (AUCs) and maximum concentrations (Cmax) of the oral suspension vs. the film-coated tablet. Safety was evaluated throughout the study. Trileptal oral suspension formulation was bioequivalent to film-coated tablet after single dose and multiple b.i.d. administrations, as assessed by MHD AUCs and Cmax. The 90% confidence intervals (CI) of the geometric mean of the MHD individual ratios were within the bioequivalence CI limits (0.80 - 1.25). No safety concerns were raised. Trileptal oral suspension formulation and film-coated tablets are bioequivalent in healthy Chinese males.
19387893	Hydroxylation of tanshinone IIa in human liver microsomes is specifically catalysed by cytochrome P4502A6.	Tanshinone IIa, the primary active component of a traditional Chinese medicine Salvia miltiorrhiza (Danshen), has a wide range of pharmacological activities. In the present study, the metabolism of tanshinone IIa (5 microM) by cytochrome P450s (CYPs) was investigated in human liver microsomes. One mono-hydroxylated metabolite was detected in a reaction catalysed by human liver microsomes, and was identified as tanshinone IIb by comparing the tandem mass spectra and the chromatographic retention time with that of the standard compound. The study with a chemical selective inhibitor, cDNA-expressed human cytochrome P450s, correlation assay, and kinetics study demonstrated that CYP2A6 was the specific isozyme responsible for the hydroxyl metabolism of tanshinone IIa (5 microM) in human liver microsomes.
16806343	Metabolic basis of ethanol-induced cytotoxicity in recombinant HepG2 cells: role of nonoxidative metabolism.	Chronic alcohol abuse, a major health problem, causes liver and pancreatic diseases and is known to impair hepatic alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Hepatic ADH-catalyzed oxidation of ethanol is a major pathway for the ethanol disposition in the body. Hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP2E1), induced in chronic alcohol abuse, is also reported to oxidize ethanol. However, impaired hepatic ADH activity in a rat model is known to facilitate a nonoxidative metabolism resulting in formation of nonoxidative metabolites of ethanol such as fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs) via a nonoxidative pathway catalyzed by FAEE synthase. Therefore, the metabolic basis of ethanol-induced cytotoxicity was determined in HepG2 cells and recombinant HepG2 cells transfected with ADH (VA-13), CYP2E1 (E47) or ADH + CYP2E1 (VL-17A). Western blot analysis shows ADH deficiency in HepG2 and E47 cells, compared to ADH-overexpressed VA-13 and VL-17A cells. Attached HepG2 cells and the recombinant cells were incubated with ethanol, and nonoxidative metabolism of ethanol was determined by measuring the formation of FAEEs. Significantly higher levels of FAEEs were synthesized in HepG2 and E47 cells than in VA-13 and VL-17A cells at all concentrations of ethanol (100-800 mg%) incubated for 6 h (optimal time for the synthesis of FAEEs) in cell culture. These results suggest that ADH-catalyzed oxidative metabolism of ethanol is the major mechanism of its disposition, regardless of CYP2E1 overexpression. On the other hand, diminished ADH activity facilitates nonoxidative metabolism of ethanol to FAEEs as found in E47 cells, regardless of CYP2E1 overexpression. Therefore, CYP2E1-mediated oxidation of ethanol could be a minor mechanism of ethanol disposition. Further studies conducted only in HepG2 and VA-13 cells showed lower ethanol disposition and ATP concentration and higher accumulation of neutral lipids and cytotoxicity (apoptosis) in HepG2 cells than in VA-13 cells. The apoptosis observed in HepG2 vs. VA-13 cells incubated with ethanol appears to be mediated by release of mitochondrial cytochrome c via activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. These results strongly support our hypothesis that diminished hepatic ADH activity facilitates nonoxidative metabolism of ethanol and the products of ethanol nonoxidative metabolism cause apoptosis in HepG2 cells via intrinsic pathway.
18685565	Phase I/II pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic study of UGT1A1 polymorphism in elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer treated with irinotecan.	This phase II study investigated the recommended dose (RD) of irinotecan (CPT-11) by dose escalation in elderly (>or=70 years) chemotherapy-naive Japanese patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. UGT1A1*28 and *6 polymorphisms and pharmacokinetics were also investigated. Thirty-seven patients received the RD, 100 mg/m(2) of intravenous CPT-11, on days 1 and 8 of each 3-week cycle in phase II. The overall response rate was 8.1%. The median survival time was 441 days, and time to progression was 132 days. A significant correlation was observed between the incidence of grade 3/4 neutropenia and area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) values of SN-38. A reduction in AUC ratios (AUC(SN-38G)/AUC(SN-38)) and a rise in incidence of grade 3/4 neutropenia were observed with increase in polymorphism. The regimen was well tolerated and provided good disease control and promising survival effects. An analysis of the influence of UGT1A1*28 and *6 polymorphisms provides useful information for the prediction of CPT-11-related hematological toxicity.
21712062	In vitro effects of ethanol and mouthrinse on permeability in an oral buccal mucosal tissue construct.	The current study investigated the influence of ethanol and ethanol-containing mouthrinses on model chemical permeability in an in vitro oral buccal mucosal construct (EpiOral, ORL-200, MatTek). Innate ethanol transport and metabolism in the tissue construct was also studied. Caffeine flux in buccal tissue was measured after pre-treatment with < 26.9% ethanol or Listerine() products under conditions modeling a typical mouthwash rinsing. Specifically, a 30s exposure to alcohol products followed by a 10h non-treatment phase and then a second 30s exposure prior to addition of caffeine. At 10min specific intervals, media was collected from the basal part of the tissue insert for HPLC analysis of caffeine. The results demonstrated no increase in caffeine flux due to prior exposure to either ethanol or Listerine(), and the flux and permeability constants were derived from the linear phase. No cytotoxicity or histopathological effects were observed in these tissues. We also studied the transepithelial transport and metabolism of ethanol in these tissues. Transport of ethanol was concentration-dependent with rate of diffusion proportional to the concentration gradient across the membrane. The potential metabolism of ethanol in the EpiOral construct was addressed by analyzing the remaining level of ethanol after incubation and de novo accumulation of acetaldehyde or acetic acid in culture media. Incubation for 30min incubation resulted in no change in ethanol level up to 2000mM, the highest concentration tested. No acetaldehyde or acetic acid was detected in culture media. In conclusion, ethanol and ethanol-containing mouthrinse treatment modeled after a typical daily mouthrinse pattern had no apparent effect on the permeability of the standard model chemical, caffeine. This exposure also had no effect on the viability of the tissue construct or histopathology, and uptake of ethanol was rapid into the tissue construct.
20930423	Metabolism of parabens (4-hydroxybenzoic acid esters) by hepatic esterases and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases in man.	Parabens (alkyl esters of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid) are widely used as preservatives in drugs, cosmetic products, and foodstuffs. Safety concerns have recently increased due to the potential health risks associated to exposure to large amounts of these substances. Biotransformation of parabens mainly includes hydrolysis of the ester bond and glucuronidation reactions. The hydrolysis and glucuronidation of a series of six parabens differing by the nature of the alkyl group were investigated in human liver microsomes and plasma, and the major human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms involved in the reaction were identified. Methyl- and ethylparaben were stable in human plasma, with 95% of the initial concentration remaining after 24 h. On the other hand, propyl-, butyl- and benzylparaben concentrations decreased by 50% under similar conditions. In contrast, rapid hydrolysis was measured with human liver microsomes depending on the alkyl chain length, with t(1/2) varying from 22 min for methylparaben to 87 min for butylparaben. All parabens were actively glucuronidated by liver microsomes, in comparison to 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. They were mainly substrates of human recombinant UGT1A1, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17. In conclusion, the parabens were readily metabolized in human liver through esterase hydrolysis and glucuronidation by several UGT isoforms. These results suggest that these parabens do not accumulate in human tissue.
8585111	Measurement of AM19 and other cyclosporine metabolites in the blood of liver transplant patients with stable liver function.	Chronic renal impairment represents on of the major side effects of cyclosporine (CsA) immunotherapy for organ transplantation. The clinical relevance of selective measurement of CsA metabolites to correlating nephrotoxic activities remains inconclusive. A relatively simple and reliable method was developed to measure AM19 and four other CsA metabolites in whole blood by sequential solid-phase extraction and reversed phase high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). The procedures were modified from a well-established method developed to quantitate CsA, the most important difference being in the elution step. The use of acetonitrile/methanol instead of ethylacetate/isopropanol in the elution procedure enhanced the absolute recoveries of metabolites. The washing steps were also slightly modified to recover AM19 quantitatively and specifically. Isocratic chromatographic conditions allowed very good separation of AM19, AM1, AM9, AM1c, AM4N, CsA, and the internal standard, cyclosporin C (CsC). Analytical recoveries for CsA and five of its metabolites ranged from 82 to 92%. No interfering substance from the matrix was found. The detection limit was 10 micrograms/l. The objectives of this study were to measure trough concentration of AM19 in whole blood, expressed as percentage of total metabolites plus parent CsA, and to determine if the blood level of AM19 could be used to predict subsequent changes in serum creatinine level in liver transplant patients. Twenty-three patients, who underwent liver transplantation between January and June 1993 were studied. Trough concentration of CsA in whole blood, serum creatinine and liver enzymes were constantly monitored. AM19 level was determined 5-8 months after transplantation. Preliminary results suggest an inverse relationship between AM19 and serum creatine levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
16406422	A fatal poisoning with 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine, Foxy.	A fatal overdose involving case by 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine (5-MeO-DIPT) is reported. 5-MeO-DIPT and its two metabolites, 5-hydroxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine (5-OH-DIPT) and 5-methoxy-N-isopropyltryptamine (5-MeO-NIPT), were identified by LC-MS. The level of 5-MeO-DIPT, 5-OH-DIPT and 5-MeO-NIPT in blood and urine was 0.412, 0.327 and 0.020 microg/ml, and 1.67, 27.0 and 0.32 microg/ml, respectively. These blood and urine levels were higher than published data for such poisoning.
19812352	Identification of multiple glutathione conjugates of 8-amino- 2-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline maleate (nomifensine) in liver microsomes and hepatocyte preparations: evidence of the bioactivation of nomifensine.	8-Amino-2-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline maleate (nomifensine), an antidepressant drug, was withdrawn from the market because of increased incidence of hemolytic anemia, as well as kidney and liver toxicity. Although the nature of the potentially reactive metabolites formed after nomifensine metabolism remains unknown and no glutathione (GSH) adducts of these nomifensine reactive metabolites have been reported, bioactivation has been postulated as a potential mechanism for the toxicity of nomifensine. This study was conducted to probe the potential bioactivation pathways of nomifensine in human and animal hepatocytes and in liver microsomes using GSH as a trapping agent. Two types of GSH conjugates were characterized by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry: 1) aniline oxidation followed by GSH conjugation leading to the formation of nomifensine-GSH sulfinamides (M1 and M2); and 2) arene oxidation followed by GSH conjugation yielding a range of arene C-linked GSH adducts (M3-M9). Nine GSH adducts (M1-M9) were identified in liver microsomes of humans, dogs, monkeys, and rats and in human and rat hepatocytes. In dog hepatocyte preparations, six GSH adducts (M1-M6) were identified. The GSH adducts in dog and rat liver microsomes were formed primarily through aniline and arene oxidation, respectively. Both pathways contributed significantly to the formation of the GSH adducts in human and monkey liver microsomes. The bioactivation pathways proposed here account for the formation of the observed GSH conjugates. These investigations have confirmed the aniline and the arene groups in nomifensine as potential toxicophores capable of generating reactive intermediates.
12711019	In vitro and in vivo models for the evaluation of new inhibitors of human steroid sulfatase, devoid of residual estrogenic activity.	The goal of our research project is to develop a new class of orally active drugs, estrone sulfatase inhibitors, for the treatment of estrogen-dependent (receptor positive) breast cancer. Several compounds were synthesized and their pharmacological potencies explored. Based on encouraging preliminary results, three of them, TX 1299, TX 1492 and TX 1506 were further studied in vitro as well as in vivo. They proved to be strong inhibitors of estrone sulfatase when measured on the whole human JEG-3 choriocarcinoma and MCF-7 breast cancer cells and their IC(50)s found to be in the range of known standard inhibitors. Their residual estrogenic activity was checked as negative in the test of induction of alkaline phosphatase (APase) activity in whole human endometrial adenocarcinoma Ishikawa cells. In addition, their effect on aromatase activity in JEG-3 cells was also examined, since the goal of inhibiting both sulfatase and aromatase activities appears very attractive. However, it has been unsuccessful so far. Then, in vivo potencies of TX 1299, the lead compound in our chemical series, were evaluated in comparison with 6,6,7-COUMATE, a non-steroidal standard, in two different rat models and by oral route. First, the absence of any residual estrogenic activity for these compounds was checked in the uterotrophic model in prepubescent female rats. Second, antiuterotrophic activity in adult ovariectomized rat supplemented with estrone sulfate (E(1)S), showed that both compounds were potent inhibitors, the power of TX 1299 relative to 6,6,7-COUMATE being around 80%. This assay was combined with uterine sulfatase level determination and confirmed the complete inhibition of this enzyme within the target organ. Preliminary studies indicated that other non-steroid compounds in the Thramex series were potent in vitro and in vivo inhibitors of estrone sulfatase in rats and further studies are in progress.
14767629	Pharmacokinetic modelling of cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime--a population study in 25 elderly patients.	To develop a pharmacostatistical model to simultaneously characterise the pharmacokinetics of cefotaxime and its main metabolite, desacetylcefotaxime, in elderly patients. Cefotaxime, 1 g, was infused three times daily to 25 elderly patients, 66-93 years old. Cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime plasma concentrations (289 and 304 samples, respectively), along with demographic and physiological characteristics, were analysed using a population approach. Cefotaxime pharmacokinetics was best described by a two-compartment open model in which desacetylcefotaxime was produced from the central compartment. The final parameter estimates were derived from simultaneous fit of parent/metabolite data. Cefotaxime clearance, mean 5.5 l/h, was positively influenced by body weight and serum protein concentration and negatively influenced by serum creatinine and age. In contrast, desacetylcefotaxime elimination was only decreased by age. The mean terminal half-lives of cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime were 1.7 h and 2.6 h, respectively. The stability and predictive performance of the final population pharmacokinetic model was assessed using 200 bootstrap samples of the original data. Cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime elimination decreased with increasing age above 60 years. This decreased elimination was related to individual characteristics that are typically related to renal function.
24170778	Multiple cytochrome P450 isoforms are involved in the generation of a pharmacologically active thiol metabolite, whereas paraoxonase 1 and carboxylesterase 1 catalyze the formation of a thiol metabolite isomer from ticlopidine.	Ticlopidine is a first-generation thienopyridine antiplatelet drug that prevents adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation. We identified the enzymes responsible for the two-step metabolic bioactivation of ticlopidine in human liver microsomes and plasma. Formation of 2-oxo-ticlopidine, an intermediate metabolite, was NADPH dependent and cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, 2B6, 2C19, and 2D6 were involved in this reaction. Conversion of 2-oxo-ticlopidine to thiol metabolites was observed in both microsomes (M1 and M2) and plasma (M1). These two metabolites were considered as isomers, and mass spectral analysis suggested that M2 was a thiol metabolite bearing an exocyclic double bond, whereas M1 was an isomer in which the double bond was migrated to an endocyclic position in the piperidine ring. The conversion of 2-oxo-ticlopidine to M1 in plasma was significantly increased by the addition of 1 mM CaCl2. In contrast, the activity in microsomes was not changed in the presence of CaCl2. M1 formation in plasma was inhibited by EDTA but not by other esterase inhibitors, whereas this activity in microsomes was substantially inhibited by carboxylesterase (CES) inhibitors such as bis-(p-nitrophenyl)phosphate (BNPP), diisopropylphosphorofluoride (DFP), and clopidogrel. The conversion of 2-oxo-ticlopidine to M1 was further confirmed with recombinant paraoxonase 1 (PON1) and CES1. However, M2 was detected only in NADPH-dependent microsomal incubation, and multiple CYP isoforms were involved in M2 formation with highest contribution of CYP2B6. In vitro platelet aggregation assay demonstrated that M2 was pharmacologically active. These results collectively indicated that the formation of M2 was mediated by CYP isoforms whereas M1, an isomer of M2, was generated either by human PON1 in plasma or by CES1 in the human liver.
2271751	The influence of hepatic cirrhosis on the pharmacokinetics of benazepril hydrochloride.	The influence of hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of the new ACE inhibitor, benazepril hydrochloride, was evaluated in 12 male patients suffering from liver cirrhosis. The patients received a single oral 20 mg dose. The plasma concentrations and urinary excretion of unchanged benazepril and its active metabolite benazeprilat were determined. Compared with a historical control group of healthy volunteers treated with the same benazepril. HC1 dose, the plasma concentrations of benazepril were doubled in the cirrhotic patients. However, the time to reach maximum concentration (0.5 h) was not affected. The plasma kinetics and the urinary excretion of the metabolite benazeprilat were not significantly altered: Area under the curve and maximum concentration as well as time to maximum concentration (1.5 h) were comparable with those in the healthy subjects. There was also no significant difference between the two populations for the total urinary excretion and the renal clearance of benazeprilat. Both benazepril and benazeprilat were highly bound to serum proteins (96 and 94 per cent, respectively). In conclusion, the rate and the amount of bioactivation of the inactive prodrug benazepril to the active benazeprilat were virtually unaffected by hepatic cirrhosis. Thus, there seems to be no need for dosage adjustment of benazepril hydrochloride in patients suffering from cirrhosis of the liver.
20722998	Glucuronidation of piceatannol by human liver microsomes: major role of UGT1A1, UGT1A8 and UGT1A10.	Piceatannol, a dietary polyphenol present in grapes and wine, is known for its promising anticancer and anti-inflammatory activity. The aim of this study was to analyse the concentration-dependent glucuronidation of piceatannol in vitro. To determine the glucuronidation of piceatannol, experiments were conducted with human liver microsomes as well as using a panel of 12 recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms. Furthermore, the chemical structures of novel glucuronides were identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Along with piceatannol it was possible to identify three metabolites whose structures were identified by LC-MS/MS as piceatannol monoglucuronides (M1-M3). Formation of M1 and M3 exhibited a pattern of substrate inhibition, with apparent K(i) and V(max)/K(m) values of 103 +/- 26.6 microm and 3.8 +/- 1.3 microl/mg protein per min, respectively, for M1 and 233 +/- 61.4 microm and 19.8 +/- 9.5 microl/mg protein per min, respectively, for M3. In contrast, formation of metabolite M2 followed classical Michaelis-Menten kinetics, with a K(m) of 18.9 +/- 8.1 microm and a V(max) of 0.21 +/- 0.02 nmol/mg protein per min. Incubation in the presence of human recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) demonstrated that M1 was formed nearly equally by UGT1A1 and UGT1A8. M2 was preferentially catalysed by UGT1A10 and to a lesser extent by UGT1A1 and UGT1A8. The formation of M3, however, was mainly catalysed by UGT1A1 and UGT1A8. Our results elucidate the importance of piceatannol glucuronidation in the human liver, which must be taken into account in humans after dietary intake of piceatannol.
19302911	Pharmacokinetics, bioequivalence, tolerability, and effects on platelet counts of two formulations of anagrelide in healthy volunteers and patients with thrombocythemia associated with chronic myeloproliferation.	Anagrelide hydrochloride is an anti-thrombotic agent indicated for the treatment of essential thrombocythemia (ET). In various previously published clinical trials of 2 branded formulations of anagrelide in patients with ET at high risk for thrombohemorrhagic events, the rates of adverse events and discontinuation were strikingly divergent between brands. Because the formulations and manufacturers differed, the differences in tolerability, as well as platelet counts, might have been related to differences in pharmacokinetic properties between the 2 formulations. The present series of investigations (1) determined the pharmacokinetic profile of anagrelide and its metabolites; (2) compared the pharmacokinetic profiles of the test and reference formulations of anagrelide; (3) investigated the in vitro release of anagrelide as a marker of intragastric anagrelide release of the test and reference formulations; and (4) compared the platelet-reducing effects of the test and reference formulations in patients with thrombocythemia in 2 longitudinal studies over 4 weeks. A series of 4 in vivo studies and 1 in vitro study were conducted. In a pilot, prospective, singledose study in healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetic properties (C(max), T(max), and AUC(0-infinity)) of a test formulation of anagrelide were assessed using high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of plasma samples. Based on the results from that study, a single-dose, randomized, double-blind, 2-period crossover study in healthy volunteers was conducted to determine bioequivalence of 2 formulations of anagrelide 2 mg/d (taken as 4 capsules). In vitro dissolution properties of the test or reference formulation containing 0.5 mg anagrelide as the active ingredient were studied in an assay mimicking gastrointestinal release. To test for effects on platelet counts of switching from the reference formulation (previous treatment on stable dose for 3 months) to the test formulation, two 4-week longitudinal trials were conducted: one in patients with ET (in Germany), and one in patients with thrombocythemia associated with chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs) (in Austria). The pilot pharmacokinetic study of the test formulation in 16 volunteers (10 women, 6 men; mean [SD] age, 20.5 [1.5] years; weight, 69.0 [10.0 kg) suggested that anagrelide was metabolized to 3-hydroxyanagrelide (AUC(0-infinity) 50% compared with anagrelide) and the inactive metabolite 2-amino-5,6-dichloro-,4-dihydroquinazolone. The subsequent bioequivalence study in 24 volunteers (14 women, 10 men; mean [SD] age, 23 [4] years; white, 100%; weight, 67.5 [10.2] kg) found that the test formulation was associated with a significantly lower C(max) (point estimation [PE], 66%; 90% CI, 58%-76%; P < 0.001) and AUC(0-infinity) (PE, 77%; 90% CI, 68%-86%; P = 0.001). T(max) values for anagrelide and 3-hydroxyanagrelide were 1 hour longer with the test formulation compared with the reference formulation. The total number of adverse events with the reference formulation was 46; the test formulation, 29 (P = 0.05). In vitro, anagrelide from the reference formulation was immediately released (89.1% at 5 minutes), whereas there was a delayed release (93.6% at 30 minutes) from the test formulation (P < 0.05). In the last 2 studies, 2 cohorts of white patients (cohort 1, 15 patients with ET; 10 women, 5 men; mean [SD] age, 49.0 [10.7] years [range, 31-66 years]; weight, 73.2 [12.6] kg; cohort 2, 19 patients with thrombocythemia associated with CMPD; 12 women, 7 men; age, 62.6 [12.4] years [range, 38-80 years]; weight, 66.1 [13.3] kg) who had received treatment for > or =3 months with the reference formulation were switched to the same dose of the test formulation and maintained on this dose for 4 weeks. Platelet counts did not change significantly from baseline over 4 weeks and stayed within a predefined margin of 150 x 10(3) cells/microL. The pharmacokinetic properties, adverse event rates, and in vitro dissolution profile differed between the test and reference anagrelide formulations in these healthy volunteers. In patients with ET or thrombocythemia associated with CMPD, platelet counts did not differ significantly from baseline at 4 weeks when subjects were switched from the reference to the test anagrelide formulation.
20118548	Cytochrome P450 3As gene expression and testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylase activity in human fetal membranes and placenta at full term.	Expression levels of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, CYP3A5 and CYP3A7 mRNAs in placentas and fetal membranes, which were split into amnion and chorion leave attached decidua (chorion/decidua), obtained from pregnant women with normal delivery (5 subjects) and Caesarean section (15 subjects) were determined. These CYP3A mRNAs were also expressed in amnion and chorion/decidua together with placenta, although the expression level of these mRNAs was strikingly different between subjects. The expression level of the CYP3A4 mRNA in the placenta was about 2-fold higher than those in amnion and chorion/decidua. On the other hand, the expression levels of CYP3A5 and CYP3A7 mRNAs were highest in chorion/decidua. The immunologically related protein(s) with CYP3A7 was detected in all tissues examined. Testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity in homogenate of human placenta, amnion and chorion/decidua were 26.6, 3.7 and 4.6 pmol/h/mg protein, respectively. These results suggest that CYP3As in fetal membranes have the metabolic function to protect the fetus from exposure to drugs.
15689500	Biosynthesis of dobutamine monoglucuronides and glucuronidation of dobutamine by recombinant human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.	Selected aspects of dobutamine glucuronidation were studied in detail. There are potentially four sites at which dobutamine can be conjugated to glucuronic acid. Three of the four dobutamine monoglucuronides that can be formed were enzymatically synthesized using pig liver microsomes, isolated, and characterized by tandem mass spectrometry, and (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy. Analysis of dobutamine glucuronidation by liver microsomes from various sources revealed large variability in the ratios of the three regioisomers. Interestingly, catecholic dobutamine meta-O-glucuronide, by far the major product synthesized with human liver microsomes, was only a minor product for rat liver microsomes. Rabbit liver microsomes yielded diglucuronides, in addition to monoglucuronides. Activities of individual recombinant human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) were investigated, and the results suggested that dobutamine glucuronidation in the human liver is mainly carried out by UGTs 2B7 and 1A9. Among the extrahepatic UGTs, the formation of monoglucuronides, mainly catecholic meta-O-glucuronide, by UGTs 1A7 and 1A8 was similar to that by 1A9, whereas UGT1A10 also efficiently catalyzed the formation of catecholic dobutamine para-O-glucuronide.
7955068	2,6-Dimethylaniline--hemoglobin adducts from lidocaine in humans.	Lidocaine (xylocaine) is utilized for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias which occur during cardiac surgery or myocardial infarction and as a local anesthetic. Recent data from the National Toxicology Program reported that a principal metabolite in man, 2,6-dimethylaniline, is carcinogenic in rats. In addition, the putative metabolite N-hydroxy-2,6-dimethylaniline has been reported to be mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium TA100. N-Hydroxy metabolites of aromatic amines may be oxidized by hemoglobin to the corresponding nitroso metabolites and the nitroso may covalently bind to cysteine groups in hemoglobin as the corresponding sulfinic acid amide. Since hemoglobin binding is an indirect measure of the formation of the N-hydroxy metabolite, we have examined the possibility that lidocaine or a metabolite may similarly covalently bind to hemoglobin in rats and humans. Using a previously developed gas chromatographic-mas spectrometric assay, hemoglobin adducts of 2,6-dimethylaniline were detected covalently bound to rat hemoglobin after administration of either 2,6-dimethylaniline or lidocaine. Consistent with previously reported observations, low levels of 2,6-dimethylaniline-hemoglobin adducts were also observed in human subjects before lidocaine administration. Following administration of lidocaine, all patients had much higher levels of 2,6-dimethylaniline-hemoglobin adducts. Differences in adduct levels in patients treated with lidocaine (70-3760 mg) ranged from 93 to 636 ng/g hemoglobin. These data indicate that N-hydroxy-2,6-dimethylaniline is a metabolite of lidocaine in man.
22425388	Sensitive quantification of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide in human plasma by LC-MS/MS employing parallel chromatography and electrospray ionisation.	A high throughput bioanalytical method based on semi-automated liquid extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been developed for the sensitive quantification of roflumilast and its metabolite roflumilast N-oxide, a phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor in human plasma and serum. The sample work-up procedure comprised liquid extraction using penta-deuterated analogues of both analytes as internal standards. Chromatography was performed on C18 revered phase analytical columns at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min in the dual column mode employing a column switching technique and a linear gradient from 18% to 54% acetonitrile in 0.005 M aqueous ammonium acetate containing 0.006% formic acid. Mass spectrometry was performed on an API 4000 instrument in the positive ion SRM-mode (selected reaction monitoring) with the Turbo-V ionspray interface. The method showed linear detector responses over the entire calibration range between 0.1 ng/mL (lower limit of quantification (LLOQ)) and 50 ng/mL (upper limit of quantification (ULOQ)) for both analytes. Linear regression analysis with concentration-squared weighting (1/x(2) for roflumilast and 1/x for roflumilast N-oxide) yielded inaccuracy and precision values <15% and coefficients of correlation (r) for the calibration curves >0.99 for both analytes.
20663284	Ethyl glucuronide concentrations in oral fluid, blood, and urine after volunteers drank 0.5 and 1.0 g/kg doses of ethanol.	The aim of this study was to investigate the concentrations of ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in oral fluid, blood, and urine after healthy volunteers drank two doses of ethanol, 0.5 (n = 11) and 1.0 g/kg (n = 10), after an overnight fast. Samples of oral fluid, blood, and urine were collected before drinking started and at 1.5, 3.5, 5.5, 8.5, 11.5, and 24 h post-dosing. Following ingestion of low dose of ethanol, the Cmax for EtG was 0.36 mg/L (range 0.28-0.41 mg/L) in blood and 69.8 mg/L (range 47.1-96.5 mg/L) in urine. In oral fluid, the concentrations were < 1% of those in blood, and only three subjects exceeded the limit of quantification for EtG in oral fluid. After ingestion of the high dose of ethanol, the Cmax for EtG was 1.06 mg/L (range 0.8-1.22 mg/L) in blood, 159.9 mg/L (range 97.2-225.5 mg/L) in urine, and 0.032 mg/L (range 0.013-0.059 mg/L) in oral fluid. The median oral fluid/blood ratio was 0.029 (range 0.012-0.054) for EtG. The detection time for EtG was median 11.5 h (range 3.5-11.5 h) in oral fluid. According to this, the detection time for EtG in oral fluid is therefore only a few hours longer than for ethanol itself and represents limited additional value.
19665452	Cancer cell death induced by phosphine gold(I) compounds targeting thioredoxin reductase.	The thioredoxin system, composed of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), thioredoxin (Trx), and NADPH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate), plays a central role in regulating cellular redox homeostasis and signaling pathways. TrxR, overexpressed in many tumor cells and contributing to drug resistance, has emerged as a new target for anticancer drugs. Gold complexes have been validated as potent TrxR inhibitors in vitro in the nanomolar range. In order to obtain potent and selective TrxR inhibitors, we have synthesized a series of linear, 'auranofin-like' gold(I) complexes all containing the [Au(PEt(3))](+) synthon and the ligands: Cl(-), Br(-), cyanate, thiocyanate, ethylxanthate, diethyldithiocarbamate and thiourea. Phosphine gold(I) complexes efficiently inhibited cytosolic and mitochondrial TrxR at concentrations that did not affect the two related oxidoreductases glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). The inhibitory effect of the redox proteins was also observed intracellularly in cancer cells pretreated with gold(I) complexes. Gold(I) compounds were found to induce antiproliferative effects towards several human cancer cells some of which endowed with cisplatin or multidrug resistance. In addition, they were able to activate caspase-3 and induce apoptosis observed as nucleosome formation and sub-G1 cell accumulation. The complexes with thiocyanate and xanthate ligands were particularly effective in inhibiting thioredoxin reductase and inducing apoptosis. Pharmacodynamic studies in human ovarian cancer cells allowed for the correlation of intracellular drug accumulation with TrxR inhibition that leads to the induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway.
22944260	Dibenzofuran induces oxidative stress, disruption of trans-mitochondrial membrane potential (m) and G1 arrest in human hepatoma cell line.	Dioxins are a class of extremely toxic environmentally persistent pollutant, comprised of halogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins, dibenzofurans and biphenyls. Despite significant human exposure via multiple routes, very little is known about toxicity induced by dibenzofuran (DF). Current study shed lights on the potential toxicity mechanism of DF using human hepatoma cell line (HepG2). It was observed that the exposure to DF potentiate oxidative stress, apoptosis and necrosis at 10M within 8h in HepG2 cells. Interestingly, when we pre-incubated the cells with -NF (1nM) for 12h, an aromatic hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, the IC(50) of DF increased by 14 folds indicating the cytoprotective ability of -NF from DF induced toxicity. Furthermore, three additional metabolites were observed while studying the metabolic profile of DF in HepG2 cells with and without pre-incubation with -NF using chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). Of these, two metabolites were characterized as dihydroxylated derivative of DF and third metabolite was characterized as quinone derivative of DF. By flow cytometry and confocal laser microscopy analysis we followed the ROS formation after DF (10M) exposure for 3h. Significantly low ROS was generated in cells which were pre-incubated with -NF than cells which were not pre-incubated with -NF underlining the importance of metabolism in DF toxicity. The same pattern of protection was consistent while measuring mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), i.e., less MMP dip was observed in 'with -NF pre-incubated and DF (10M) exposed cells' than 'without -NF pre-incubated but DF exposed cells'. In cell cycle studies, it was confirmed that cell population of HepG2 at G1 stage progressively increased in number (74%) within 24h. Thus, DF and its metabolites induce significantly higher cytotoxicity after metabolism in HepG2 cells than its parent compound (DF) by ROS formation, MMP dip and impaired cell cycle.
19755414	Effect of telithromycin on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral oxycodone.	The aim of this study is to determine whether the inhibition of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 enzyme activity with telithromycin affects the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of orally administered oxycodone in a randomized 2-phase crossover study. Eleven healthy subjects were pretreated with 800 mg of oral telithromycin or placebo for 4 days. On day 3, they ingested 10 mg of immediate-release oxycodone. Plasma concentrations of oxycodone and its oxidative metabolites were measured for 48 hours, and pharmacodynamic effects were evaluated. Telithromycin increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC(0-infinity)) of oxycodone by 80% (P < .001) and reduced the AUC(0-infinity) of noroxycodone by 46% (P < .001). Most of the pharmacokinetic changes were seen in the elimination phase, with little effect by telithromycin on the peak concentration of oxycodone. Pharmacodynamic effects of oxycodone were modestly enhanced by telithromycin. In conclusion, telithromycin clearly reduces the N-demethylation of oxycodone to noroxycodone by inhibiting the CYP450 3A4 enzyme. The use of telithromycin in patients receiving multiple doses of oxycodone for pain relief may increase the risk of opioid adverse effects. Reduction of oxycodone dose by 25% to 50% followed by readjustment according to the clinical response might be appropriate.
7655302	Simultaneous determination of nadolol enantiomers in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography using fluorescence detection.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic assay is described for the separation and quantification of nadolol isomers in human plasma. The isomers were quantified using reverse-phase HPLC and fluorometric detection after derivatization with the chiral reagent R(-)-1-(naphthyl)ethylisocyanate [R(-)-NEI]. The N-isopropyl analogue (one isomer) of nadolol was used as the internal standard. The method was reproducible based on precision studies where the percent relatives standard deviation was less than 15%. The lower limit of quantitation for each isomer was 2.5 ng/mL. This method was used to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of nadolol isomers in human subjects following both single and multiple oral dosing.
16783563	Amodiaquine, its desethylated metabolite, or both, inhibit the metabolism of debrisoquine (CYP2D6) and losartan (CYP2C9) in vivo.	To study the extent of in vivo inhibition by the antimalarial drug amodiaquine, its active metabolite N-desethylamodiaquine, or both, of the metabolism of four probe drugs of the enzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP1A2. Twelve healthy Swedish volunteers received a cocktail of four probe drugs (debrisoquine, omeprazole, losartan and caffeine) to determine their baseline metabolic capacities. After a washout period, they received a 600 mg oral dose of amodiaquine hydrochloride; and 2-3 h later the cocktail was administered again. One week after the intake of amodiaquine, the subjects received the cocktail a third time. The levels of probe drugs and their metabolites as well as amodiaquine and its metabolite were determined by HPLC. Plasma levels of amodiaquine and N-desethylamodiaquine could be followed in all subjects for 6 h and 28 days, respectively. Among the 12 subjects, a 3-fold variation in amodiaquine AUC and a 2-fold variation in N-desethylamodiaquine AUC, were observed. The CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 activities of the subjects were measured by debrisoquine and losartan phenotyping tests, respectively. There were significant mean increases in debrisoquine metabolic ratio (MR) between baseline and the second cocktail [MR(2 h)-MR(baseline) 1.426 (95% confidence interval 1.159, 1.755), P=0.002; ANOVA, Fisher LSD test] and in mean losartan MR between baseline and the second cocktail [MR(2 h)-MR(baseline) 1.724 (95% confidence interval 1.076, 2.762), P=0.026; ANOVA, Fisher LSD test]. The effects on CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 activities subsided within a week after intake of amodiaquine as tested by the phenotyping cocktail. The changes in omeprazole MRs and caffeine MRs were not statistically significant between any of the study phases. A single dose of amodiaquine decreased CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 activities significantly compared to baseline values. Amodiaquine has the potential to cause drug-drug interactions and should be further investigated in malarial patients treated with drug combinations containing amodiaquine.
21396229	Quantitation of opioids in whole blood by electron impact-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Opioids are frequently encountered in Forensic Toxicology casework. A PubMed literature search was conducted to find a method using electron impact-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to examine whole blood specimens. A previously published method was identified, and an updated version was provided by the State of North Carolina Office of the Chief Medical Examiner. This procedure was used as a starting point for development and validation of a refined procedure to be used in the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office Forensic Toxicology laboratory for routine analysis of antemortem forensic toxicology case samples. Materials and instrumentation common to most forensic toxicology laboratories were utilized while obtaining detection limits from 1 to 10 ng/mL and quantitation limits of 2.5 to 10 ng/mL using 1 mL of whole blood. Target compounds were chosen based on applicability to the method as well as availability and common use in the United States and include dihydrocodeine, codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, 6-monoacetylmorphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone. Each analyte demonstrated two zero-order linear ranges (r(2) > 0.990) over the concentrations evaluated (from 2.5 to 500 ng/mL). The coefficient of variation of replicate analyses was less than 12%. Quantitative accuracy was within  27% at 2.5 ng/mL,  11% at 10 ng/mL, and  8% at 50 ng/mL. The validated method provides a more sensitive procedure for the quantitation of common opioids in blood using standard laboratory equipment and a small amount of sample.
21550385	Microsomal cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of hypaconitine, an active and highly toxic constituent derived from Aconitum species.	Hypaconitine (HA), an active and highly toxic constituent derived from Aconitum species, is widely used to treat rheumatism. Little is known about the hepatic cytochrome P450-catalyzed metabolism of HA. The present study investigated the metabolism of HA in vitro using male human liver microsomes (MHLMS). Chemical inhibitors of specific CYP enzymes, CYP-specific inhibitory monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), and cDNA-expressed CYP enzymes were used to confirm the enzyme subtypes involved in the metabolism. Liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to detect and identify metabolites. A total of 11 metabolites were identified in MHLMS incubations. The major metabolic pathways included demethylation (M1-M3), demethylation-dehydrogenation (M4-M6), hydroxylation (M7, M8), and didemethylation (M9-M11). M8 was identified as mesaconitine (MA), another active and highly toxic constituent of Aconitum. The results of chemical inhibition, monoclonal antibody inhibition, and cDNA-expressed CYP enzyme studies showed that the primary contributors toward HA metabolism were CYP3A4 and 3A5, with secondary contributions by CYP2C19, 2D6, and CYP2E1. CYP1A2 and 2C8 provided minor contributions.
19666078	CYP1-mediated antiproliferative activity of dietary flavonoids in MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells.	Among the different mechanisms proposed to explain the cancer-protecting effect of dietary flavonoids, substrate-like interactions with cytochrome P450 CYP1 enzymes have recently been explored. In the present study, the metabolism of the flavonoids chrysin, baicalein, scutellarein, sinensetin and genkwanin by recombinant CYP1A1, CYP1B1 and CYP1A2 enzymes, as well as their antiproliferative activity in MDA-MB-468 human breast adenocarcinoma and MCF-10A normal breast cell lines, were investigated. Baicalein and 6-hydroxyluteolin were the only conversion products of chrysin and scutellarein metabolism by CYP1 family enzymes, respectively, while baicalein itself was not metabolized further. Sinensetin and genkwanin produced a greater number of metabolites and were shown to inhibit strongly in vitro proliferation of MDA-MB-468 cells at submicromolar and micromolar concentrations, respectively, without essentially affecting the viability of MCF-10A cells. Cotreatment of the CYP1 family inhibitor acacetin reversed the antiproliferative activity noticed for the two flavones in MDA-MB-468 cells to 13 and 14 microM respectively. In contrast chrysin, baicalein and scutellarein inhibited proliferation of MDA-MB-468 cells to a lesser extent than sinensetin and genkwanin. The metabolism of genkwanin to apigenin and of chrysin to baicalein was favored by CYP1B1 and CYP1A1, respectively. Taken together the data suggests that CYP1 family enzymes enhance the antiproliferative activity of dietary flavonoids in breast cancer cells, through bioconversion to more active products.
11695849	Metabolic activation of 1alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 in human liver microsomes.	1. 1Alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 (1alpha-OH-D3) is a synthetic prodrug of the active form of vitamin D3, and requires the hydroxylation at the C-25 position before eliciting its biological activity. 2. 25-Hydroxylation activities for 1alpha-OH-D3 were present in both microsomal and mitochondrial fractions of human liver. 3. To determine the P450 enzyme(s) involved in microsomal 25-hydroxylation, 14 P450s (CYP1A1, 1A2, 1B1, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9-Arg, 2C9-Cys, 2C19, 2D6-Val, 2D6-Met, 2E1, 3A4, 4A11) were tested for their 25-hydroxylation activity of 1alpha-OH-D3. None catalysed the 25-hydroxylation reaction. 4. 1Alpha-OH-D3 in a high concentration (2.5 ng ml(-1)) showed small but significant inhibition of the catalytic activities of CYP2C8, 2C9-Cys, 2C19, 2D6-Val and 2E1 for their typical substrates. However, 1alpha-OH-D3 in a clinically used low concentration will not significantly affect drug metabolism catalysed by the 14 P450s tested. 5. In summary, the 25-hydroxylation activity of 1alpha-OH-D3 that localizes in the microsomal fraction appears to be attributable to a cytochrome P450 other than the microsomal forms tested in this study.
17241825	Quantitative analysis of racecadotril metabolite in human plasma using a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	Orally administered racecadotril is rapidly hydrolyzed to the more potent enkephalinase inhibitor thiorphan in vivo. A sensitive and specific liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method was developed and validated to quantify thiorphan in human plasma using lisinopril as the internal standard. After a simple protein precipitation with methanol, the post-treatment samples were analyzed on a CN column interfaced with a triple-quadruple tandem mass spectrometer using negative electrospray ionization. The method was validated to demonstrate the specificity, lower limit of quantification, accuracy, and precision of measurements. The assay was linear over the concentration range 9.38-600 ng/mL using a 5 microL aliquot of plasma. The correlation coefficients for the calibration curves ranged from 0.9985 to 0.9995. The intra- and inter-day precisions over the entire concentration were not more than 6.33%. Methanol and water (35:65, v/v) is used as the isocratic mobile phase, with 0.1% of formic acid in water. The method was successfully applied for pharmacokinetic study after a single oral administration of 200 mg racecadotril to 20 healthy volunteers.
18083074	A rapid and validated HPLC method to quantify racecadotril metabolite, thiorphan, in human plasma using solid-phase extraction.	A HPLC method with UV detection was developed and validated for the determination of thiorphan in human plasma. Nevirapine was used as the internal standard. Separation was performed by a Waters sunfire C18 reversed-phase column maintained at 35 degrees C. The mobile phase was a mixture of 0.05 M phosphate buffer with the pH adjusted to 2.6 and acetonitrile (74:26, v/v) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. The UV detector was set at 210 nm. An original pre-treatment of plasma samples was developed, based on solid-phase extraction (SPE) with solid-phase extraction cartridges (Oasis HLB 3 mL, 60 mg). The extraction recovery for plasma samples of thiorphan at 0.1, 0.4 and 2.0 microg/mL was 93.5%, 98.2% and 97.8%, respectively. The calibration curve was linear with the correlation coefficient (r) above 0.9998. Linearity was verified over the range of 0.05-4 microg/mL thiorphan in plasma. The limit of quantification (LOQ) is 0.05 microg/mL. The mean accuracy was 92.7-99.6%. The coefficient of variation (precision) in the within- and between-batch was 2.2-8.4% and 4.1-8.1%, respectively. This method is simple, economical and specific, and has been used successfully in a pharmacokinetic study of thiorphan.
23230132	Involvement of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 in ethanol glucuronidation, and interactions with common drugs of abuse.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) determination is increasingly used in clinical and forensic toxicology to document ethanol consumption. The enzymes involved in EtG production, as well as potential interactions with common drugs of abuse, have not been extensively studied. Activities of human liver (HLM), kidney (HKM), and intestinal (HIM) microsomes, as well as of 12 major human recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), toward ethanol (50 and 500 mM) were evaluated in vitro using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Enzyme kinetic parameters were determined for pooled microsomes and recombinant UGTs with significant activity. Individual contributions of UGTs were estimated using the relative activity factor approach, proposed for scaling activities obtained with cDNA-expressed enzymes to HLM. Interaction of morphine, codeine, lorazepam, oxazepam, nicotine, cotinine, cannabinol, and cannabidiol (5, 10, 15 mg/l) with ethanol (1.15, 4.6, 11.5 g/l; i.e., 25, 100, 250 mM) glucuronidation was assessed using pooled HLM. Ethanol glucuronidation intrinsic clearance (Cl(int)) was 4 and 12.7 times higher for HLM than for HKM and HIM, respectively. All recombinant UGTs, except UGT1A1, 1A6, and 1A10, produced EtG in detectable amounts. UGT1A9 and 2B7 were the most active enzymes, each accounting for 17 and 33% of HLM Cl(int), respectively. Only cannabinol and cannabidiol significantly affected ethanol glucuronidation. Cannabinol increased ethanol glucuronidation in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas cannabidiol significantly inhibited EtG formation in a noncompetitive manner (IC(50) = 1.17 mg/l; inhibition constant (K(i)) = 3.1 mg/l). UGT1A9 and 2B7 are the main enzymes involved in ethanol glucuronidation. In addition, our results suggest that cannabinol and cannabidiol could significantly alter ethanol glucuronidation.
22623337	Differential inhibitory effects of proton pump inhibitors on the metabolism and antiplatelet activities of clopidogrel and prasugrel.	The interaction between proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and clopidogrel/prasugrel was investigated. The IC50 values of omeprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole and rabeprazole on the metabolic ratios of 2-oxo-clopidogrel/clopidogrel, H4 (the active metabolite of clopidogrel)/2-oxo-clopidogrel and R-138727 (the active metabolite of prasugrel)/prasugrel thiolactone in human liver microsomes were determined. The antiplatelet activities of clopidogrel and prasugrel were measured with or without PPIs. As a result, most PPIs (except for pantoprazole) inhibited the formation of 2-oxo-clopidogrel with IC50 values of 20-32 m and inhibited the formation of H4 with IC50 values of 6-20 m. PPIs inhibited the formation of R-138727 with IC50 values of 9-25 m. Among the tested PPIs, omeprazole exhibited the highest inhibitory potency on the formation of H4. Omeprazole, esomeprazole and rabeprazole exhibited the highest inhibitory potencies on the formation of R-138727. For platelet aggregation, omeprazole and lansoprazole show higher inhibitory effects on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. On the other hand, omeprazole, esomeprazole and rabeprazole significantly decreased the antiplatelet activity of prasugrel thiolactone. These data indicate that PPIs differ in their effects of inhibiting the metabolism and antiplatelet activities of clopidogrel and prasugrel.
12668072	High-performance liquid chromatographic assay with fluorescence detection for the simultaneous measurement of carboxylate and lactone forms of irinotecan and three metabolites in human plasma.	Irinotecan (CPT-11), a camptothecin analog, is metabolized to SN-38, an active topoisomerase I inhibitor, and inactive metabolites, including APC and SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G). A high-performance liquid chromatographic assay method to simultaneously measure the lactone and carboxylate forms of CPT-11, SN-38, SN-38G, and APC in human plasma was developed. Chromatography was accomplished with a reversed-phase C(8) column and fluorescence detection. A gradient mobile phase system was used. The buffer for mobile phase A consisted of 0.75 M ammonium acetate, 5 mM tetrabutylammonium phosphate (pH 6.0), and acetonitrile (86:14, v/v). The buffer for mobile phase B was identical to mobile phase A with the exception of the concentration (50:50, v/v). Precipitation of plasma proteins was performed with cold methanol. The linear range of detection of the lactone and carboxylate forms of SN-38, SN-38G, and APC was 2-25 ng/ml, and 5-300 ng/ml for CPT-11. The limit of quantitation for the analytes ranged from 0.5 to 5 ng/ml. Analysis of patients' plasma samples obtained before and after CPT-11 administration showed that the assay is suitable for measuring lactone and carboxylate forms of CPT-11, SN-38, SN-38G, and APC in clinical studies.
16803664	High-performance liquid chromatography method for urinary trans,trans-muconic acid. Application to environmental exposure to benzene.	This report describes a specific and precise high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the quantification of trans,trans-muconic acid in human urine. The procedure involved a highly efficient Bond-Elut SAX extraction with 20% acetic acid elution. The HPLC analysis used a sodium acetate/methanol mobile phase with a C18 reverse phase column and UV detection at 265 nm. The recovery, precision, linearity, and limits of detection and quantification of the method were determined. Mean absolute recoveries were between 97% and 115%. The calibration curve showed a correlation coefficient of 0.9955 and the limit of detection was determined to be 10.8 microg/L. The method is suitable for evaluation of occupational and environmental benzene exposure in humans. The study of urinary trans,trans-muconic acid of two populations of children to evaluate environmental benzene exposure is presented.
15771232	Comparative effects of fibrates on drug metabolizing enzymes in human hepatocytes.	The induction potential of different fibric acid derivatives on human drug metabolizing enzymes was evaluated to help assess the role of enzyme induction on pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Effects of gemfibrozil, fenofibric acid, and clofibric acid on expression levels of cytochromes P450 (CYPs) 3A4 and 2C8 and UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 were evaluated in primary human hepatocyte cultures. The potential for these fibrates to activate human pregnane X receptor (PXR) also was studied in a cell-based PXR reporter gene assay. All three fibrates caused increases in mRNA levels of CYP3A4 (2- to 5-fold), CYP2C8 (2- to 6-fold), and UGT1A1 (2- to 3-fold). On average, the effects on CYP3A4 were less than (< or =30% of rifampin), while those on CYP2C8 and UGT1A1 were comparable to or slightly higher than (up to 200% of rifampin) the corresponding effects observed with rifampin (10 microM). Consistent with the mRNA results, all fibrates caused moderate (approximately 2- to 3-fold) increases in CYP3A4 activity (measured by testosterone 6beta hydroxylase), as compared to about a 10-fold increase by rifampin. Significant increases (3- to 6-fold) in amodiaquine N-deethylase (a functional probe for CYP2C8 activity) also were observed with clofibric acid, fenofibric acid, and rifampin, in agreement with the mRNA finding. However, in contrast to the mRNA induction, marked decreases (>60%) in CYP2C8 activity were obtained with gemfibrozil treatment. Consistent with this finding, co-incubation of amodiaquine with gemfibrozil, but not with fenofibric acid, clofibric acid, or rifampin, in human liver microsomes or hepatocytes resulted in significantly decreased amodiaquine N-deethylase activity (IC50 = 80 microM for gemfibrozil, >500 microM for fenofibric or clofibric acid, and >50 microM for rifampin). Similar to rifampin, all three fibrates caused a modest change in the glucuronidation of chrysin, a nonspecific substrate of UGTs. No significant activation on human pregnane X receptor (PXR) was observed with the three fibrates in a PXR reporter gene assay. In human hepatocytes, both fenofibric acid and clofibric acid are inducers of CYP3A4 and CYP2C8. Gemfibrozil is also an inducer of CYP3A4, but acts as both an inducer and an inhibitor of CYP2C8. In this system, all fibrates are weak inducers of UGT1A1. The enzyme inducing effects of fibrates appear to be mediated via a mechanism(s) other than PXR activation. These results suggest that fibrates may have potential to cause various pharmacokinetic drug interactions via their differential effects on enzyme induction and/or inhibition.
17713471	Lopinavir-ritonavir dramatically affects the pharmacokinetics of irinotecan in HIV patients with Kaposi's sarcoma.	The coadministration of protease inhibitors with anticancer drugs in the management of human immunodeficiency virus-related malignancies can cause potential drug-drug interactions. The effect of lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/RTV) on the pharmacokinetics of irinotecan (CPT11) has been investigated in seven patients with Kaposi's sarcoma. Coadministration of LPV/RTV reduces the clearance of CPT11 by 47% (11.3+/-3.5 vs 21.3+/-6.3 l/h/m(2), P=0.0008). This effect was associated with an 81% reduction (P=0.02) of the AUC (area under the curve) of the oxidized metabolite APC (7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic-acid)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin). The LPV/RTV treatment also inhibited the formation of SN38 glucuronide (SN38G), as shown by the 36% decrease in the SN38G/SN38 AUCs ratio (5.9+/-1.6 vs 9.2+/-2.6, P=0.002) consistent with UGT1A1 inhibition by LPV/RTV. This dual effect resulted in increased availability of CPT11 for SN38 conversion and reduced inactivation on SN38, leading to a 204% increase (P=0.0001) in SN38 AUC in the presence of LPV/RTV. The clinical consequences of these substantial pharmacokinetic changes should be investigated.
16522362	Simultaneous analysis of thiamphenicol and its prodrug thiamphenicol glycinate in human plasma and urine by high performance liquid chromatography: application to pharmacokinetic study.	A simple and sensitive method for simultaneous determination of the active compound, thiamphenicol (TAP) and its prodrug, thiamphenicol glycinate (TG) in human plasma and urine is described. The procedure involved extraction of TG and TAP with ethyl acetate (plasma) or 100-fold dilution with the mobile phase (urine) followed by determination by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection at 224 nm. Separation of the compounds was achieved on a column packed with Hypersil ODS2. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile-water containing 0.003 M tetrabutyl ammonium bromide and 0.056 M ammonium acetate (87:13, v/v) with a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min. The chromatograms did not contain interfering peaks due to the suitable extraction procedure and chromatographic conditions. The calibration curves of TG and TAP were linear ranging from 0.78 to 100 microg/ml in plasma and in urine. The intra-day and inter-day relative standard deviations (S.D.) were less than 10%. The recoveries of TG and TAP in plasma and urine were above 80%. TG was not stable in plasma samples and after extraction at ambient temperature or in freeze-thaw cycles, and hence the samples for injection on HPLC column should be stored in refrigerator or under ice cooling prior to analysis, and the plasma samples should not experience the freeze-thaw cycle more than one time. Unlike TAP, TG could not be detected in most urine samples. Application of this method demonstrated that it was feasible for the clinical pharmacokinetic study.
15894033	Formation of 19-norsteroids by in situ demethylation of endogenous steroids in stored urine samples.	The formation of 19-norsteroids by demethylation of endogenous steroids in stored urine samples was observed. Suspicious urine samples (i.e. containing trace amounts of 19-norandrosterone and 19-noretiocholanolone) were selected and spiked with deuterated analogues of androsterone and etiocholanolone at concentrations corresponding to high endogenous levels (4 microg/mL). After incubation, respective 19-norsteroids (19-norandrosterone-d4 and 19-noretiocholanolone-d5) were identified in these samples by high-resolution mass spectrometry. The transformation of the 5 beta-isomer (etiocholanolone) yields about three-fold higher concentrations, compared to the 5 alpha-isomer. A significant temperature dependence was observed by comparison of reaction kinetics at room temperature (23+/-2 degrees C) and 37 degrees C. Concentrations of 19-norandrosterone-d4 and 19-noretiocholanolone-d5, respectively, were 2.7 and 3.6 times higher at elevated temperature. The conversion of androsterone-d4 to 19-norandrosterone-d4 did not exceed a relative amount of 0.1%. Incubation of the urine samples with androsterone-d4-glucuronide led to the production of 19-norandrosterone-d4-glucuronoide. A partial stabilization was observed after addition of metabolic inhibitors (e.g. EDTA). The application of the incubation experiments described may contribute to the clarification of adverse analytical findings regarding low levels of 19-norsteroid metabolites.
12361741	Determination of N,N-dimethyltryptamine and beta-carboline alkaloids in human plasma following oral administration of Ayahuasca.	Ayahuasca is a South American psychotropic beverage prepared from plants native to the Amazon River Basin. It combines the hallucinogenic agent and 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT) with beta-carboline alkaloids showing monoamine oxidase-inhibiting properties. In the present paper, an analytical methodology for the plasma quantification of the four main alkaloids present in ayahuasca plus two major metabolites is described. DMT was extracted by liquid-liquid extraction with n-pentane and quantified by gas chromatography with nitrogen-phosphorus detection. Recovery was 74%, and precision and accuracy were better than 9.9%. The limit of quantification (LOQ) was 1.6 ng/ml. Harmine, harmaline, and tetrahydroharmine (THH), the three main beta-carbolines present in ayahuasca, and harmol and harmalol (O-demethylation metabolites of harmine and harmaline, respectively) were measured in plasma by means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. Sample preparation was accomplished by solid-phase extraction, which facilitated the automation of the process. All five beta-carbolines were measured using a single detector by switching wavelengths. Separation of harmol and harmalol required only slight changes in the chromatographic conditions. Method validation demonstrated good recoveries, above 87%, and accuracy and precision better than 13.4%. The LOQ was 0.5 ng/ml for harmine, 0.3 ng/ml for harmaline, 1.0 ng/ml for THH, and 0.3 ng/ml for harmol and harmalol. Good linearity was observed in the concentration ranges evaluated for DMT (2.5-50 ng/ml) and the beta-carbolines (0.3-100 ng/ml). The gas chromatography and HPLC methods described allowed adequate characterization of the pharmacokinetics of the four main alkaloids present in ayahuasca, and also of two major beta-carboline metabolites not previously described in the literature.
7618190	In vitro influence of plasma steroid-binding proteins on androgen metabolism in human leukocytes.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of plasma steroid-binding proteins on androgen metabolism in intact leukocytes prepared from normal male and female blood samples. Leukocyte preparations were incubated for 24 h at 37 degrees C with either labeled or unlabeled testosterone (T), 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT), and androstenedione (A). After extraction, the formed labeled metabolites were first identified by high performance liquid chromatography, then, using unlabeled substrates, metabolite concentrations were measured by specific radioimmunoassays. The conversion ratios of substrate to metabolite were calculated for each preparation using either labeled or unlabeled substrates. In the absence of steroid-binding proteins, the mean conversion ratios of T to A, A to T, T to 5 alpha-DHT, and 5 alpha-DHT to 3 alpha-androstanediol (3 alpha-D) were, in males and females, respectively, 5.6% and 6.1% (n = 11), 5.6% and 5.6% (n = 5), 2.8% and 2.2% (n = 11), 43.1% and 40.0% (n = 5), these sex differences being non-significant. The presence of increasing amounts of plasma, purified albumin or sex hormone binding-globulin (SHBG) in the incubation media reduced metabolite formation dose-dependently. However, a 1000-fold greater concentration of albumin than of SHBG was necessary for 50% inhibition of androgen metabolism by leukocytes, showing SHBG to have the main protective effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8902431	Pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin in comparison to the racemic mixture of ofloxacin in man.	After oral administration of a single dose of 200 mg of levofloxacin and 400 mg racemic mixture of ofloxacin to 6 healthy male volunteers in a double-blind, randomised cross-over study, concentrations of the unchanged isomers were determined at various times in serum and urine, over 28 hours and 48 hours, respectively. Each dosing was followed by a wash-out period of one week. Ofloxacin concentrations were determined using an enantioselective and a non-enantioselective high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay. The two measurements obtained were compared by linear distribution independent regression, and were found to be equivalent. Maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of levofloxacin after the administration of 200 mg of the levo-isomer was 2.42 mg/l (chiral derivatization HPLC, mean values); the corresponding area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC0-28) was 17.0 mg x h/l. The corresponding Cmax values after the administration of 400 mg (+/-)-isomer (chiral derivatization HPLC and reversed phased HPLC, mean values) were 2.05 mg/l, 1.98 mg/l and 4.41 mg/l for (-)-, (+)- and (+/-) isomer, respectively. The AUCS0-28 were 17.0, 14.6 and 32.7 mg x h/l, respectively. The pharmacokinetics of the (-)- and (+)-isomer were shown to be almost equal. In serum and urine no reracemisation of the (-)-isomer to a racemic mixture was observed. General tolerability was good; no side effects were reported.
12920490	Identification of human cytochrome P(450)s that metabolise anti-parasitic drugs and predictions of in vivo drug hepatic clearance from in vitro data.	Knowledge about the metabolism of anti-parasitic drugs (APDs) will be helpful in ongoing efforts to optimise dosage recommendations in clinical practise. This study was performed to further identify the cytochrome P(450) (CYP) enzymes that metabolise major APDs and evaluate the possibility of predicting in vivo drug clearances from in vitro data. In vitro systems, rat and human liver microsomes (RLM, HLM) and recombinant cytochrome P(450) (rCYP), were used to determine the intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) and identify responsible CYPs and their relative contribution in the metabolism of 15 commonly used APDs. CL(int) determined in RLM and HLM showed low (r(2)=0.50) but significant ( P<0.01) correlation. The CL(int) values were scaled to predict in vivo hepatic clearance (CL(H)) using the 'venous equilibrium model'. The number of compounds with in vivo human CL data after intravenous administration was low ( n=8), and the range of CL values covered by these compounds was not appropriate for a reasonable quantitative in vitro-in vivo correlation analysis. Using the CL(H) predicted from the in vitro data, the compounds could be classified into three different categories: high-clearance drugs (>70% liver blood flow; amodiaquine, praziquantel, albendazole, thiabendazole), low-clearance drugs (<30% liver blood flow; chloroquine, dapsone, diethylcarbamazine, pentamidine, primaquine, pyrantel, pyrimethamine, tinidazole) and intermediate clearance drugs (artemisinin, artesunate, quinine). With the exception of artemisinin, which is a high clearance drug in vivo, all other compounds were classified using in vitro data in agreement with in vivo observations. We identified hepatic CYP enzymes responsible for metabolism of some compounds (praziquantel-1A2, 2C19, 3A4; primaquine-1A2, 3A4; chloroquine-2C8, 2D6, 3A4; artesunate-2A6; pyrantel-2D6). For the other compounds, we confirmed the role of previously reported CYPs for their metabolism and identified other CYPs involved which had not been reported before. Our results show that it is possible to make in vitro-in vivo predictions of high, intermediate and low CL(int) drug categories. The identified CYPs for some of the drugs provide a basis for how these drugs are expected to behave pharmacokinetically and help in predicting drug-drug interactions in vivo.
15910012	Contribution of cytochrome P450 2D6 to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine disposition in humans: use of paroxetine as a metabolic inhibitor probe.	3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a synthetic amphetamine derivative typically used for recreational purposes. The participation of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 in the oxidative metabolism of MDMA may suggest an increased risk of acute toxicity in CYP2D6 poor metabolisers. This study was aimed at assessing the contribution of CYP2D6 to MDMA disposition in vivo using paroxetine as a metabolic probe inhibitor. Paroxetine, a CYP2D6 inhibitor, was repeatedly administered before MDMA administration. This was a randomised, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled trial conducted in seven healthy male volunteers who were CYP2D6 extensive metabolisers. Treatment conditions (paroxetine/MDMA and placebo/MDMA) were randomly assigned. Each volunteer participated in two 3-day sessions. On days 1, 2 and 3 subjects received a single oral dose of paroxetine or placebo 20 mg. On the third day, a single oral dose of MDMA 100 mg was administered in both paroxetine and placebo conditions. Plasma concentration-time profiles and urinary recoveries of MDMA and its metabolites were measured, as well as plasma concentrations of paroxetine, (3S,4R)-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-3-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenoxymethyl)-piperidine, and (3S,4R)-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-3-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenoxymethyl)-piperidine (HM-paroxetine). Paroxetine given before MDMA resulted in significant increases of MDMA area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 27 hours (AUC(27)) [23%], AUC from zero to infinity (AUC(infinity)) [27%] and maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) [17%], without significant differences in MDMA time to reach C(max) (t(max)). MDMA elimination-related pharmacokinetic parameters showed a significant reduction of MDMA elimination rate constant (K(e)) [-14%] and plasmatic clearance (CL(P)) [-29%]. In the case of 3,4-dihydroxymethamphetamine (HHMA), a 21% decrease in C(max) with no significant differences in AUC(27), AUC(infinity), K(e) and elimination half-life) were found. 4-Hydroxy-3-methoxymethamphetamine (HMMA) showed a decrease in plasma concentrations with a reduction in AUC(27) (-28%), AUC(infinity) (-20%) and C(max) (-46%). In the case of 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) an increase in C(max) (17%) and AUC(27) (16%) was found. Following paroxetine pretreatment, the urinary recovery (0-45 hours) of MDMA increased by 11%; HHMA and HMMA urinary recoveries were 27% and 16% lower, respectively compared with placebo. The ratio of C(max) values of paroxetine and its metabolite on days 1 and 3 showed a 3-fold reduction, with no differences in t(max). The contribution of CYP2D6 to MDMA metabolism in humans is not >30%, therefore other CYP isoenzymes may contribute to O-demethylenation of MDMA. Accordingly, the relevance of genetic polymorphism in CYP2D6 activity on MDMA effects and MDMA-induced acute toxicity should be examined as well as the interactions of other CYP2D6 substrates with MDMA, once the enzyme is inhibited. The pharmacokinetics of HM-paroxetine in humans after the administration of repeated doses is reported for the first time in this study.
17343829	Glucuronidation of fenamates: kinetic studies using human kidney cortical microsomes and recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A9 and 2B7.	Mefenamic acid, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), is used commonly to treat menorrhagia. This study investigated the glucuronidation kinetics of flufenamic, mefenamic and niflumic acid using human kidney cortical microsomes (HKCM) and recombinant UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. Using HKCM Michaelis-Menten (MM) kinetics were observed for mefenamic (K(m)(app) 23 microM) and niflumic acid (K(m)(app) 123 microM) glucuronidation, while flufenamic acid exhibited non-hyperbolic (atypical) glucuronidation kinetics. Notably, the intrinsic renal clearance of mefenamic acid (CL(int) 17+/-5.5 microL/minmg protein) was fifteen fold higher than that of niflumic acid (CL(int) 1.1+/-0.8 microL/minmg protein). These data suggest that renal glucuronidation of mefenamic acid may result in high intrarenal exposure to mefenamic acyl-glucuronide and subsequent binding to renal proteins. Diverse kinetics were observed for fenamate glucuronidation by UGT2B7 and UGT1A9. Using UGT2B7 MM kinetics were observed for flufenamic (K(m)(app) 48 microM) and niflumic acid (K(m)(app) 135 microM) glucuronidation and atypical kinetics with mefenamic acid. Similarity in K(m)(app) between HKCM and UGT2B7 suggests that UGT2B7 may be the predominant renal UGT isoform catalysing niflumic acid glucuronidation. In contrast, UGT1A9 glucuronidation kinetics were characterised by negative cooperativity with mefenamic (S(50) 449 microM, h 0.4) and niflumic acid (S(50) 7344 microM, h 0.4) while atypical kinetics were observed with flufenamic acid. Additionally, potent inhibition of the renal glucuronidation of the UGT substrate 'probe' 4-methylumbelliferone by flufenamic, mefenamic and niflumic acid was observed. These data suggest that inhibitory metabolic interactions may occur between fenamates and other substrates metabolised by UGT2B7 and UGT1A9 in human kidney.
1742552	Solid phase extraction of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites from plasma for analysis by high performance liquid chromatography.	A rapid, sensitive and simple-to-operate high performance liquid chromatographic method for the simulataneous determination of oxcarbazepine, 10-hydroxycarbazepine and 10,11-dihydro-10,11-trans-dihydroxy-carbamazepine in plasma is described. The drug and its metabolites were extracted from plasma using commercially available reversed phase octadecylsilane bonded-silica columns (Bond Elut C18, 1 mL capacity). Chromatographic separation of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites was achieved using a mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile/methanol/water (13:25:62 by volume) at a flow rate of 1.2 mL/min in conjunction with a Waters Associates Nova-Pak C18 column. The analytical column, in Radial-Pak cartridge form, was used in combination with a LiChrospher 5 microns C18 guard column. By measuring the UV absorbance at 214 nm, plasma levels in the region of 50-100 ng/mL for the drug and its metabolites can be detected with only 100 microL of plasma. The method has been applied to pharmacokinetic studies of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in children with epilepsy; preliminary pharmacokinetic findings in two patients at steady-state are presented.
23239179	Measuring methotrexate polyglutamates in red blood cells: a new LC-MS/MS-based method.	The folate antagonist methotrexate (MTX) is the anchor drug in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The therapeutic effects of MTX are attributed to the intracellular levels of MTX, present in the cell as polyglutamates (MTXPGn). We developed a new liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS)-based assay to separately quantitate MTXPGn in red blood cells using stable-isotope-labelled internal standards. Samples were analyzed by LC-ESI-MS/MS using a Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18 column with a 5-100% organic gradient of 10 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 10) and methanol. The analysis consisted of simple sample preparation and a 6-min run time. Detection was done using a Waters Acquity UPLC coupled to a Waters Quattro Premier XE with electrospray ionization operating in the positive ionization mode. Assay validation was performed following recent Food and Drug Administration guidelines. The method was linear from 1-1,000 nM for all MTXPGn (R(2) > 0.99). The coefficient of variation ranged from 1-4% for intraday precision and 6-15% for interday precision. Samples were stable for at least 1 month at -80 C. Recovery ranged from 98-100%, and the relative matrix-effect varied from 95-99%. The lower limit of quantitation was 1 nM for each MTXPGn. Fifty patient samples from the tREACH study were analyzed. The MTXPGn concentration and distribution of these samples were comparable with values reported in literature. The developed LC-ESI-MS/MS method for the quantitative measurement of MTXPGn in red blood cells is both sensitive and precise within the clinically relevant range. The method can be easily applied in clinical laboratories due to the combination of simple pre-treatment with robust LC-ESI-MS/MS.
8734840	Expression and activities of class IV alcohol dehydrogenase and class III aldehyde dehydrogenase in human mouth.	Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) are the principal enzymes responsible for the oxidation of ingested ethanol in humans. To study these two enzymes in surgical specimens of attached gingiva and tongue, we have examined the isozyme patterns by agarose isoelectric focusing and determined the enzyme activities. Class IV mu-ADH, class III chi-ADH, and class III ALDH3 were detected in the oral mucosa tissues. Gingival mu-ADH exhibited a pH optimum for ethanol oxidation at 10 and the K(m) value for ethanol (pH 7.5) was estimated to be 27 mM. At pH 7.5 and 30 degrees C, the ADH activities in the gingiva and tongue samples were determined to be 90.0 +/- 5.8 (mean +/- SE; n = 24) and 50.6 +/- 5.1 (n = 3) nmol/min/g tissue (at 33 mM ethanol), and 138 +/- 11 and 55.1 +/- 4.7 nmol/min/g tissue (at 500 mM ethanol), respectively. The ALDH activities at 20 mM acetaldehyde were determined to be 169 +/- 19 and 50.3 +/- 8.1 nmol/min/g tissue for the gingiva and tongue, respectively. We conclude that ethanol can be significantly metabolized in human attached gingiva and lingual mucosa by mu-ADH. The result also suggests that, due to lacking activity of low K(m) ALDH2 and ALDH1, cytotoxic metabolite acetaldehyde may be involved in the etiology of alcohol-related oral injury.
16192111	Microsomal prediction of in vivo clearance and associated interindividual variability of six benzodiazepines in humans.	The intrinsic clearances (CLint) of midazolam, triazolam, diazepam, nordiazepam, flunitrazepam and alprazolam were determined from two liver banks (n=21) by formation kinetics of ten metabolites. A literature-collated database of in vivo CLint values (811 subjects) was used to assess predictions and variability. The in vivo clearance of six benzodiazepines was generally underpredicted by in vitro data and the degree of bias was in agreement with a database of structurally diverse compounds (n=37). The variability observed for in vitro clearances (11--19--fold for midazolam, diazepam and nordiazepam in liver bank 1; 101--269--fold for triazolam, flunitrazepam and alprazolam in liver bank 2) exceeded the in vivo variability for the same compounds (4--59 and 10--29, respectively). This mismatch may contribute to the bias in microsomal predictions and it highlights the need for careful selection of representative livers for human liver banks.
18268076	In vitro metabolism of 2-[6-(4-chlorophenyl)-2,2-dimethyl-7-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrrolizin-5-yl] acetic acid (licofelone, ML3000), an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 and 5-lipoxygenase.	2-[6-(4-Chlorophenyl)-2,2-dimethyl-7-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrrolizin-5-yl] acetic acid (licofelone) is a dual inhibitor of both cyclooxygenase isoforms and 5-lipoxygenase and under development for treatment of osteoarthritis. In conventional in vitro assays using liver microsomes and NADPH as cosubstrate, a high metabolic stability of licofelone was observed. In the presence of UDP-glucuronic acid, licofelone is rapidly converted into the corresponding acyl glucuronide, M1. These results are in conflict with data from clinical studies. After administration of licofelone to humans, M1 plasma concentrations were negligibly low, whereas the exposure of the hydroxy-metabolite M2 achieved values of approximately 20% compared with that of the parent drug. Metabolism studies with human hepatocytes and dual-activity assays with microsomes, which allowed the simultaneous monitoring of hydroxylation and glucuronidation reactions, were performed, and the metabolic pathway of licofelone was elucidated. After glucuronidation, predominantly catalyzed by UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms UGT2B7, UGT1A9, and UGT1A3, M1 is converted into the hydroxy-glucuronide M3 in a CYP2C8-dependent reaction. The enzyme specificities were investigated using recombinant human cytochrome P450 and UGT isoforms as test systems. In vitro drug-interaction studies using the 6alpha-hydroxylation of paclitaxel as control reaction confirmed that neither licofelone nor M1 is a relevant inhibitor of CYP2C8. The formation of M3 was also observed with liver microsomes from cynomolgus monkeys, but in incubations with mouse and rat liver microsomes, M1 remained unchanged. The clinical relevance of these findings is discussed.
12260	Methods for study of fluphenazine kinetics in man.	Fluphenazine and its principal metabolites, fluphenazine sulphoxide, and 7-hydroxyfluphenazine were identified and quantified in human plasma, urine and faeces following intramuscular and oral administration of 14C-fluphenazine dihydrochloride. The presence of a conjugate fraction was also noted. Unmetabolized fluphenazine was selectively extracted into n-heptane. The metabolites were separated by solvent extraction into toluene. Conjugates were hydrolysed back to fluphenazine, fluphenazne sulphoxide and 7-hydroxyfluphenazine. Fluphenazine and fluphenazine conjugates were also measured in the urine of patients receiving long term non-radioactive fluphenazine decanoate therapy. The urinary excretion rate of the conjugate fraction was systematically related to the plasma concentration, regardless of urine flow rate or pH, providing a convenient method for the assessment of fluphenazine kinetics by urinary excretion studies not involving administration of labelled drug.
15107151	Acute poisoning with phosphamidon: determination of dimethyl phosphate (DMP) as a stable metabolite in a case of organophosphate insecticide intoxication.	Many organophosphate pesticides (OP) such as phosphamidon are unstable in aqueous solutions and especially in blood in the presence of esterases. In a case of intoxication, the phosphamidon concentration in serum decreased from 10 mg/L to 4.4 mg/L after storage at -20 degrees C for six months; nearly complete degradation was observed after three years. Dimethyl phosphate (DMP) is a metabolite of phosphamidon, mevinphos, dicrotophos, monocrotophos, dichlorvos, and trichlorfon. A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method with deuterated DMP-d6 as internal standard for the determination of DMP in biological material was validated. DMP was found in all of the patient's samples (3.9 and 4.9 mg/L in blood, 33.5 and 50.4 mg/L in urine, and 8.1 mg/L in gastric fluid), even after storage at -20 degrees C for up to 3 years. No hints for a degradation of DMP when spiked in fresh blood and stored at 4 degrees C for 1 week and stored in water over a time period of 10 months. Looking for the stable metabolites like DMP in cases of suspected OP intoxication is recommended.
12650722	Prohormones and sport.	Several precursors of testosterone and nandrolone introduced on the nutritional supplement market as performance enhancing drugs are banned in sports. Until now they are legally sold without a prescription in the US. Results of excretion studies with related compounds including 7-keto-DHEA and 1-androstenediol are presented. The main metabolites of 7-keto-DHEA are 7-hydroxylated compounds. The commercial 1-androstenediol preparation was contaminated with several other anabolic steroids. Oxidation of 1-androstenediol to 1-androstenedione seems to be the major renal metabolic pathway. Additionally contaminated nutritional supplements containing banned substances not indicated on the label were administered. The results of the excretion studies indicate that after the intake of amounts substantially lower than the recommended dose athletes can fail a doping test for periods up to 120 h.
21726496	Study investigating pharmacokinetic interaction between theophylline and roflumilast in healthy adults.	To investigate whether a pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction exists between theophylline (THEO), a CYP1A2 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index, and the concomitant substrate roflumilast (ROF), a novel selective PDE4 inhibitor partially metabolized by CYP1A2. In an open-label, 2-period, crossover study, Treatment A (oral ROF 500 g q.d. on Days 6 - 10 in addition to oral THEO 375 mg b.i.d. on Days 1 - 10) and treatment B (oral ROF 500 g q.d. on Days 1 - 5) were administered consecutively in random order to each of 24 healthy adult subjects. Both periods were separated by a wash-out phase of at least 10 days. Plasma samples for pharmacokinetic evaluation (AUC, Cmax, t1/2, tmax) including percent peak-trough fluctuation (%PTF) of THEO were taken. Point estimates and the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratios were calculated for AUC and Cmax and descriptive statistics for other pharmacokinetic parameters. Concomitant administration of ROF did not alter pharmacokinetics of THEO. With coadministered THEO, only steady-state total exposure to ROF (AUC) was increased by 28% whereas other pharmacokinetic parameters (t1/2, Cmax, tmax) of ROF and of the active metabolite roflumilast-N-oxide (R-NO), its main contributor to the pharmacodynamic effects, remained unchanged. Neither ROF nor its main metabolite had any impact on the metabolism of the concomitant CYP1A2 substrate THEO in humans. Though co-administration of THEO resulted in a minor increase (28%) in total ROF exposure, no safety or tolerability concerns and no altered total PDE4 inhibition of both ROF and R-NO, were observed.
23542607	Quantification of cabazitaxel, its metabolite docetaxel and the determination of the demethylated metabolites RPR112698 and RPR123142 as docetaxel equivalents in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	We present a sensitive validated LC-MS/MS assay for the simultaneous determination of cabazitaxel and docetaxel in human plasma, with calibration ranges of 1.0-150 ng/mL for cabazitaxel and 0.1-15 ng/mL for docetaxel. Sample pretreatment consisted of liquid-liquid extraction with tert-butyl methyl ether. Chromatographic separation was achieved on a Zorbax Extend C18 column using a gradient mixture of 10mM ammonium hydroxide and methanol. Mass detection was carried out by turbo ion spray ionization in positive ion multiple reaction monitoring mode. All inter-day accuracies and precisions were within 15% of the nominal value and within 20% at the lower limit of quantitation. Demethylations of cabazitaxel yielding the metabolites RPR112698 and RPR123142 were monitored semi-quantitatively and quantified as ng docetaxel equivalents. Plasma samples of a prostate cancer patient treated with cabazitaxel were analyzed to demonstrate the usefulness of the presented assay for clinical drug monitoring. In conclusion, this method can be applied to support clinical pharmacokinetic studies with the novel anticancer drug cabazitaxel.
21781649	Influence of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of oral roflumilast: an open-label, parallel-group, single-center study.	Roflumilast is a novel, orally active, selective phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor recently approved in the European Union for the treatment of severe COPD. Roflumilast and its metabolites are mainly (70% of total radioactivity) eliminated via the kidneys as glucuronides. The potential impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and its active main metabolite roflumilast N-oxide were characterized. Patients (n = 12) with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance CL(CR) < 30 ml/ min/1.73 m; otherwise healthy) and matched (sex, age, weight, and height) healthy control subjects (n = 12; CL(CR) > 80 ml/min/1.73 m) were enrolled into an open-label, parallelgroup study. Single dose (500 g, p.o.) pharmacokinetics and safety/tolerability of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide were compared between both groups. A minor decrease of exposure (area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC(0-)), maximum plasma concentration (C(max))) and a small increase in elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of roflumilast (-1%; -6%; +19%, respectively) and roflumilast N-oxide (-%; ND; +30%, respectively) were observed in renally impaired patients compared with healthy subjects. No relevant differences in safety and tolerability were observed between groups. The pharmacokinetic changes observed in patients with renal impairment are of small magnitude without clinical importance. A dose adjustment or a change in the administration interval of roflumilast is not necessary in patients with renal impairment.
18640250	Biological monitoring of low benzene exposure in Italian traffic policemen.	A comparative evaluation of urinary biomarkers was carried out to characterize benzene exposure in a group of 100 traffic policemen of the city of Parma (Italy). All subjects were monitored once, in two consecutive days characterized by similar climatic conditions but preceded by two windy days. Benzene ambient concentration measured by municipal air monitoring stations was 1 microg/m(3) (Day 1) and 2 microg/m3 (Day 2). Personal exposure to ambient concentrations of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene (BTEX) was assessed by using Radiello((R)) passive-diffusive samplers in a subgroup of 24 workers. Benzene metabolites, t,t-muconic acid (t,t-MA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) were determined by isotopic dilution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry on spot urine samples collected at the end of the shift. Urinary benzene (U-B) was determined by solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Airborne benzene concentration expressed as median [and interquartile range] was 6.07 [0.28-9.53] microg/m(3), as assessed by personal sampling. Urinary concentrations of biomarkers in the whole group were 41.8 [34.1-89.8] microg/g creatinine for t,t-MA, 0.67 [0.23-1.32] microg/g creatinine for S-PMA, and 0.16 [0.13-0.26] microg/l for U-B. Smokers eliminated significantly higher concentrations of unchanged BTEX and benzene metabolites than non-smokers (p < 0.05). When traffic policemen were distinguished into indoor (n=31) and outdoor workers, no significant differences were observed for either airborne benzene or urinary biomarkers. Significantly lower concentrations of S-PMA and U-B were determined in samples collected at Day 1 as compared to Day 2 (p < 0.0001 and p = 0.003, respectively) suggesting that these biomarkers are enough sensitive and specific to detect changes in airborne benzene concentration even at few microg/m(3).
12433802	Gemfibrozil inhibits CYP2C8-mediated cerivastatin metabolism in human liver microsomes.	To explore the mechanism of the interaction between gemfibrozil and cerivastatin, the enzyme mapping of the oxidative metabolism of cerivastatin and the effect of gemfibrozil on cerivastatin metabolism were studied using human liver microsomes and expressed cytochrome p450 (p450) CYP2C8 and 3A4 isoforms. Based on studies with isoform-selective chemical inhibitors and expressed enzymes, CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 were equally important in the formation of desmethylcerivastatin (M-1), whereas the formation of the quantitatively most important hydroxy metabolite (M-23) was predominantly mediated via CYP2C8; other p450 isoforms played a negligible role. In human liver microsomes, gemfibrozil markedly inhibited M-23 formation, with a K(i) (IC(50)) value of 69 (95) micro M, whereas inhibition of M-1 formation was weaker with a K(i) (IC(50)) value of 273 (>250) micro M. The inhibitory effect of gemfibrozil was attributable to inhibition of CYP2C8 rather than CYP3A4, as evidenced by potent inhibition of the formation of M-23 (IC(50) = 68 micro M) and M-1 (IC(50) = 78 micro M) in recombinant CYP2C8 but not in recombinant CYP3A4. Additionally, gemfibrozil inhibited paclitaxel 6 alpha-hydroxylation [K(i) (IC(50)) = 75 micro M (91 micro M)], a CYP2C8 marker reaction, but did not inhibit testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation (CYP3A4). The present in vitro findings suggest that inhibition of CYP2C8 activity by gemfibrozil at least partially explains the interaction between gemfibrozil and cerivastatin. The formation of M-23 acid from cerivastatin is mediated mainly by CYP2C8 and thus may be a suitable CYP2C8 probe reaction. Inhibition of CYP2C8-mediated metabolism by gemfibrozil warrants further in vivo exploration.
22813462	Deep understanding of the interaction between thienorphine and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms.	Thienorphine has been demonstrated to be a potent, long-acting partial opioid agonist. It is being developed as a good candidate to treat opioid dependence. The thienorphine's glucuronide was detected after thienorphine was incubated with human liver microsomes (HLMs). Recombinant UGT isoforms screening experiment and enzyme kinetic study showed that UGT1A1 completely contributed to the glucuronidation of thienorphine. Among the tested UGT isoforms, UGT1A3 and UGT2B7 were inhibited by thienorphine, with other UGT isoforms negligibly influenced. The inhibition type is competitive, and inhibition kinetic parameters (K(i)) were 1.65 and 5.27 M for UGT1A3 and UGT2B7, respectively. However, due to low plasma concentration of thienorphine, in vivo drug-drug interaction might not occur.
16418707	Rapid quantitative determination of L-FMAU-TP from human peripheral-blood mononuclear cells of hepatitis B virus-infected patients treated with L-FMAU by ion-pairing, reverse-phase, liquid chromatography/electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	The purpose of this study was to develop an analytical method for the determination of 2'-fluoro-5-methyl-beta-l-arabinofuranosyl uracil triphosphate (L-FMAU-TP) in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and its application in the determination of cellular levels of L-FMAU-TP in PBMCs isolated from patients treated with 2'-fluoro-5-methyl-beta-l-arabinofuranosyl uracil (L-FMAU). An ion-pairing liquid chromatography (IPC) method, coupled with negative ion electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS), was developed for the accurate and repeatable detection of L-FMAU-TP, with a limit of detection of 1.6 pmol/10 cells. The calibration curve for L-FMAU-TP was linear over the concentration range 1.6 to 80 pmol/10(6) cells. The intra- and inter-day precision was lower than 11.2%, and the accuracy was between 97.1 and 106.9%. When applied to the determination of L-FMAU-TP in PBMCs isolated from HBV-infected patients undergoing L-FMAU treatment, the levels reached a steady state concentration 4 weeks after daily single oral administration of 20 mg L-FMAU, and these levels were maintained for up to 12 weeks, but then decreased 12 weeks after drug cessation. The terminal half-life of L-FMAU-TP in PBMCs after drug cessation was estimated to be 15.6 days.
7820267	Simultaneous detection of methylphenidate and its main metabolite, ritalinic acid, in doping control.	Two analytical methods for the simultaneous detection in urine of methylphenidate and its main metabolite, ritalinic acid, are described. Both procedures are based on solid-phase extraction of urine samples on Bond Elut Certify columns, and capillary gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric detection of O-trimethylsilyl, N-trifluoroacetyl derivatives. The former method is used as a general screening procedure for the detection of basic polar nitrogen-containing compounds in urine such as stimulants, narcotic and adrenergic drugs. The latter procedure is proposed as a specific method to confirm methylphenidate ingestion. The two methods are sensitive enough to detect methylphenidate and ritalinic acid in urine at least for 24 h after administration of a therapeutic dose (20 mg oral dose) of methylphenidate.
20530221	Novel metabolic bioactivation mechanism for a series of anti-inflammatory agents (2,5-diaminothiophene derivatives) mediated by cytochrome p450 enzymes.	The thiophene moiety is considered a structural alert in molecular design in drug discovery, largely because several thiophene-containing drugs, including tienilic acid and suprofen, have been withdrawn from the market because of toxicities. Reactive thiophene intermediates, activated via sulfur oxidation or ring epoxidation, are possible culprits for these adverse side effects. In this work, the metabolic activation of an anti-inflammatory agent, 1-(3-carbamoyl-5-(2,3,5-trichlorobenzamido)thiophen-2-yl)urea), containing a 2,5-diaminothiophene structure, was studied in liver microsomes in the presence of glutathione or N-acetylcysteine as trapping agents. In addition, the glutathione conjugate was detected in bile from a bile duct-cannulated rat study. The structure of the glutathione conjugate was identified by mass spectrometry and (1)H NMR. The glutathione molecule was attached to the thiophene ring, replacing the existing proton. Metabolic phenotyping experiments, using chemical inhibitors or recombinant cytochromes P450 (P450), demonstrated that CYP3A4 was the major P450 enzyme responsible for the metabolic activation, followed by CYP1A2, 2Cs, and 2D6. A novel metabolic activation mechanism is proposed whereby the 2,5-diaminothiophene moiety undergoes oxidation to a 2,5-diimine thiophene reactive intermediate. This mechanism was used to support efforts to eliminate reactive metabolite generation via structural modification of ring substituents using structure-activity relationships. The disruption of formation of the 2,5-diimine reactive intermediate resulted in the elimination of glutathione conjugate formation both in vitro and in vivo and provided a rational approach to mitigating potential safety risks associated with this class of thiophenes in drug research and development.
1949905	Metabolism of levamisole, an anti-colon cancer drug, by human intestinal bacteria.	1. Anaerobic incubation of levamisole with human intestinal flora resulted in the formation of three thiazole ring-opened metabolites, namely, levametabol-I, II and III. These new hydroxamic lactam-type metabolites were isolated and characterized by various spectroscopic methods. 2. Various pure cultures of human intestinal bacterial strains were shown, by quantitative h.p.l.c. analysis, to have ring-opening ability. Strong metabolizers include Bacteroides and Clostridium spp. Bacterial mixtures prepared from human faeces showed much greater ability to transform levamisole (74% in 48 h) than any pure strain culture. 3. Greatly decreased levamisole-transforming activity was observed with autoclaved bacterial cultures, and no activity was found with broth medium alone. This indicates that metabolism requires the presence of anaerobic bacteria and involves, at least in part, a non-enzymic process.
12438516	Extrapolation of diclofenac clearance from in vitro microsomal metabolism data: role of acyl glucuronidation and sequential oxidative metabolism of the acyl glucuronide.	Diclofenac is eliminated predominantly (approximately 50%) as its 4'-hydroxylated metabolite in humans, whereas the acyl glucuronide (AG) pathway appears more important in rats (approximately 50%) and dogs (>80-90%). However, previous studies of diclofenac oxidative metabolism in human liver microsomes (HLMs) have yielded pronounced underprediction of human in vivo clearance. We determined the relative quantitative importance of 4'-hydroxy and AG pathways of diclofenac metabolism in rat, dog, and human liver microsomes. Microsomal intrinsic clearance values (CL(int) = V(max)/K(m)) were determined and used to extrapolate the in vivo blood clearance of diclofenac in these species. Clearance of diclofenac was accurately predicted from microsomal data only when both the AG and the 4'-hydroxy pathways were considered. However, the fact that the AG pathway in HLMs accounted for ~75% of the estimated hepatic CL(int) of diclofenac is apparently inconsistent with the 4'-hydroxy diclofenac excretion data in humans. Interestingly, upon incubation with HLMs, significant oxidative metabolism of diclofenac AG, directly to 4'-hydroxy diclofenac AG, was observed. The estimated hepatic CL(int) of this pathway suggested that a significant fraction of the intrahepatically formed diclofenac AG may be converted to its 4'-hydroxy derivative in vivo. Further experiments indicated that this novel oxidative reaction was catalyzed by CYP2C8, as opposed to CYP2C9-catalyzed 4'-hydroxylation of diclofenac. These findings may have general implications in the use of total (free + conjugated) oxidative metabolite excretion for determining primary routes of drug clearance and may question the utility of diclofenac as a probe for phenotyping human CYP2C9 activity in vivo via measurement of its pharmacokinetics and total 4'-hydroxy diclofenac urinary excretion.
9264312	Interactions of amphetamine analogs with human liver CYP2D6.	The interaction of fifteen amphetamine analogs with the genetically polymorphic enzyme CYP2D6 was examined. All fourteen phenylisopropylamines tested were competitive inhibitors of CYP2D6 in human liver microsomes. The presence of a methylenedioxy group in the 3,4-positions of both amphetamine (Ki = 26.5 microM) and methamphetamine (Ki = 25 microM) increased the affinity for CYP2D6 to 1.8 and 0.6 microM, respectively. Addition of a methoxy group to amphetamine in the 2-position also increased the affinity for CYP2D6 (Ki = 11.5 microM). The compound with the highest affinity for CYP2D6 was an amphetamine analog (MMDA-2) having both a methoxy group in the 2-position and a methylenedioxy group (Ki = 0.17 microM). Mescaline did not interact with CYP2D6. O-Demethylation of p-methoxyamphetamine (PMA) by CYP2D6 was characterized (Km = 59.2 +/- 22.4 microM, and Vmax = 29.3 +/- 16.6 nmol/mg/hr, N = 6 livers). This reaction was negligible in CYP2D6-deficient liver microsomes, was inhibited stereoselectively by the quinidine/quinine enantiomer pair, and was cosegregated with dextromethorphan O-demethylation (r = 0.975). The inhibitory effect of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) was enhanced by preincubation with microsomes, suggesting that MDMA may produce a metabolite complex with CYP2D6. These findings suggest that phenylisopropylamines as a class interact with CYP2D6 as substrates and/or inhibitors. Their use may cause metabolic interactions with other drugs that are CYP2D6 substrates, and the potential for polymorphic oxidation via CYP2D6 may be a source of interindividual variation in their abuse liability and toxicity.
16868069	Methylated flavonoids have greatly improved intestinal absorption and metabolic stability.	To better understand the relationship between the chemical structure and biological fate of dietary polyphenols, the hepatic metabolic stability and intestinal absorption of methylated polyphenols, in comparison with unmethylated polyphenols, were investigated in pooled human liver S9 fraction and human colon adenocarcinoma (Caco-2) cells. Consistent with previous in vivo studies, the two well known unmethylated polyphenols resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) and quercetin (3,5,7,3',4'-pentahydroxyflavone) were rapidly eliminated by the S9 fraction in the presence of the appropriate cofactors for conjugation and oxidation. In contrast, the methylated flavones, i.e., 7-methoxyflavone, 7,4'-dimethoxyflavone, 5,7-dimethoxyflavone, and 5,7,4'-trimethoxyflavone, were relatively stable, indicating high resistance to hepatic metabolism. The corresponding unmethylated flavones, i.e., 7-hydroxyflavone, 7,4'-dihydroxyflavone, chrysin (5,7-dihydroxyflavone), and apigenin (5,7,4'-trihydroxyflavone), were rapidly eliminated because of extensive glucuronidation and/or sulfation just as resveratrol and quercetin were. The rate of intestinal absorption was evaluated using Caco-2 cells grown in porous inserts. The methylated flavones showed approximately 5- to 8-fold higher apparent permeability (P(app), 22.6-27.6 x 10(-6) cm s(-1)) of apical to basolateral flux than the unmethylated flavones (P(app), 3.0-7.8 x 10(-6) cm s(-1)). The lower P(app) values for the unmethylated flavones correlated with their extensive metabolism in the Caco-2 cells. Thus, combined use of the hepatic S9 fraction and Caco-2 cells will be useful for predicting the oral bioavailability of dietary polyphenols. The higher hepatic metabolic stability and intestinal absorption of the methylated polyphenols make them more favorable than the unmethylated polyphenols to be developed as potential cancer chemopreventive agents.
8811432	Simultaneous radiometric and fluorimetric detection of lauric acid metabolites using high-performance liquid chromatography following esterification with 4-bromomethyl-6,7-dimethoxycoumarin in human and rat liver microsomes.	The formation of (omega-1)-hydroxylauric acid from lauric acid (LA) can be used as an indicator of the activity of cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) in rat and human liver microsomes. A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method that is capable of identifying and measuring the two main metabolites of lauric acid, (omega-1)- and omega-OH-LA, has been developed and used in the study of rat and human liver microsomes. Measurement of the enzymatic activities, based on the esterification of the metabolites and substrate with the fluorescent agent, 4-bromomethyl-6, 7-dimethoxycoumarin, is described using both radiometric and fluorimetric detection methods. Extraction efficiencies of metabolites and residual substrate were calculated using radioactivity and were greater than 85%. The assay is accurate and reproducible and has a detection limit of 75 pg (0.37 pmol). Additionally, a strong correlation between the two techniques was found in both human (r = 0.945, n = 15, p < 0.01) and rat (r = 0.949, n = 18, p < 0.01) livers, for the (omega-1)-hydroxylauric acid.
11591899	Plasma concentration of topiramate correlates with cerebrospinal fluid concentration.	The authors examined the ratio between the plasma and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration of topiramate in 14 adults with epilepsy. Simultaneous trough samples of venous blood and CSF were collected and analyzed as total and unbound concentrations. Concomitant levels were also analyzed of lamotrigine (n = 5) and the relevant oxcarbazepine metabolite, 10-hydroxycarbazepine (n = 3). There was a close correlation between the plasma and the CSF concentration for both the total and unbound concentration of topiramate. The median CSF/plasma ratio of total topiramate was 0.85. The free topiramate concentration in plasma was not different from the free topiramate concentration in CSF. The CSF/plasma ratios showed little variation and were independent of the plasma level for both the total and the unbound levels. The unbound fraction of topiramate was 84% in plasma and 97% in CSF. The CSF concentrations of lamotrigine and 10-hydroxycarbazepine were 50% and 61% of the plasma concentrations, respectively. For topiramate, there is a close correlation between the plasma concentration and the CSF concentration. There does not seem to be a saturable carrier mechanism restricting topiramate transport across the blood-brain barrier. The concentration of topiramate in CSF is equal to the unbound proportion of topiramate in plasma, implying that the delivery of topiramate to the brain occurs via transfer from the unbound plasma pool. Plasma is thus a relevant matrix for therapeutic drug monitoring of topiramate.
16426572	Preferential inducibility of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 by TCDD: differential regulation in primary human hepatocytes versus transformed human cells.	Cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) induction, a marker of aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor activation, has been associated with carcinogenicity of the environmental agent 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Consistently, we show that TCDD treatment led to induction of CYP1A1 in responsive human cancer cell lines including HepG2, LS174T, and MCF-7, as determined by Western blotting and CYP1A form-selective R-warfarin 6- and 8-hydroxylation. TCDD, however, preferably induced CYP1A2, not CYP1A1, in primary human hepatocytes. Such CYP1A form-preferred induction at the protein level was apparently uncorrelated with non-preferred mRNA induction in any cells studied. Moreover, while both genes were up-regulated by TCDD in primary hepatocytes and HepG2 cells, the induction of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 at the mRNA level was distinguishable, indicated by the marked differences in activation kinetics and the response to the protein synthesis inhibitors, anisomycin and cycloheximide. Furthermore, formation of total benzo(a)pyrene (BaP)-DNA adducts was not altered following BaP exposure in TCDD-treated primary hepatocytes, whereas significantly elevated, in a CYP1A1-dependent manner, in the treated HepG2 cells. Taken together, our findings, demonstrating the complexities of TCDD-associated human Ah receptor function and differential regulations of CYP 1A enzymes, suggest clearly the need for caution when extrapolating data obtained in cell-based models.
14757175	Nicotine-related alkaloids and metabolites as inhibitors of human cytochrome P-450 2A6.	S-(-)-Nicotine and 13 of the most prevalent nicotine-related alkaloids and metabolites (i.e., S-(-)-nornicotine, myosmine, beta-nicotyrine, S-cotinine, S-norcotinine, S-(-)-nicotine N-1'-oxide, S-(-)-nicotine Delta1'-5'-iminium ion, S-(-)-anabasine, S-(-)-N-methylanabasine, anabaseine, S-(-)-anatabine, nicotelline, and 2,3'-bipyridyl) were evaluated as inhibitors of human cDNA-expressed cytochrome P-450 2A6 (CYP2A6) mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylation. Tobacco alkaloids myosmine, S-(-)-nornicotine, S-cotinine, S-norcotinine, S-(-)-nicotine N-1'-oxide, S-(-)-nicotine Delta1'-5'-iminium ion, S-(-)-N-methylanabasine, anabaseine, and nicotelline had Ki values for inhibition of coumarin 7-hydroxylation ranging from 20 microM to more than 300 microM whereas nicotine and S-(-)-anatabine were much more potent (i.e. 4.4 and 3.8 microM, respectively). The tobacco alkaloids 2,3'-bipyridyl (7.7 microM) and S-(-)-anabasine (5.4 microM), were somewhat less potent compared with S-(-)-nicotine or S-(-)-anatabine in inhibition of human CYP2A6. beta-Nicotyrine, in which the N-methylpyrrolidino moiety of nicotine was replaced by the aromatic N-methylpyrrole ring, was shown to inhibit human CYP2A6 with much greater potency (Ki=0.37 microM) compared with S-(-)-nicotine. Among the compounds examined, only nicotine and beta-nicotyrine were mechanism-based inhibitors of human CYP2A6. The potency of the mechanism-based CYP2A6 inhibitors suggests that, for smokers, modulation of CYP2A6 may be greater than that predicted on the basis of serum concentration of these alkaloids. Our results indicate that the prominent nicotine-related alkaloid beta-nicotyrine present after smoking potently inhibits human CYP2A6.
12775497	Determination of urinary hippuric acid and o-cresol levels as biological indicators of toluene exposure in shoe-workers and glue sniffers.	In this study, groups exposed to toluene either intentionally (glue sniffers) or unintentionally (shoe-workers) were compared. The groups were evaluated in terms of urinary levels of the toluene metabolites hippuric acid and o-cresol. Results were also compared with control values. Hippuric acid levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography and o-cresol levels by gas liquid chromatography. The levels of hippuric acid and o-cresol were found to be statistically significantly higher in glue sniffers than in shoe-workers (p <0.001) or controls (p <0.001). In addition, the differences between the levels of urinary hippuric acid and o-cresol in the shoe-workers and in the controls were statistically significant (p <0.05 and p <0.001, respectively). These results suggest that extremely high levels of urinary hippuric acid and o-cresol indicate massive exposure to toluene.
17403915	Biotransformation of 6-methoxy-3-(3',4',5'-trimethoxy-benzoyl)-1H-indole (BPR0L075), a novel antimicrotubule agent, by mouse, rat, dog, and human liver microsomes.	6-Methoxy-3-(3',4',5'-trimethoxy-benzoyl)-1H-indole (BPR0L075) is a novel synthetic indole compound with microtubule binding activity. Incubation of BPR0L075 with mouse, rat, dog, and human liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH resulted in the formation of six metabolites. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and comparison with the synthetic reference standards identified two metabolites (M1 and M5) as the products derived from hydroxylation on the indole moiety of the molecule. M3 was also identified as a product derived from hydroxylation, but the structure of this metabolite was not identified because of the lack of a reference standard. M2, M4, and M6 were identified as the products derived from O-demethylation. M2, 6-desmethyl-BPR0L075, was the major metabolite formed by the liver microsomes of the four species. No qualitative species difference in the metabolism of BPR0L075 was observed. There was quantitative species difference in the metabolism of BPR0L075 among the four species. Whereas mouse and rat liver microsomes metabolized BPR0L075 predominantly via O-demethylation, dog liver microsomes metabolized BPR0L075 by O-demethylation and hydroxylation to about the same extent. The rank order of intrinsic clearance rates for the conversion of BPR0L075 to 6-desmethyl-BPR0L075 was mouse > rat > human > dog. Incubation of BPR0L075 with baculovirus-insect cell-expressed human cytochrome P450 (P450) isozymes showed that CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4 all catalyzed the O-demethylation and hydroxylation of BPR0L075 but to a different degree. Among the six P450 isozymes tested, CYP1A2 and 2D6 were most active on catalyzing the metabolism of BPR0L075. CYP1A2 catalyzed mainly the formation of M1, M2, and M3. M2 was the predominant metabolite formed by CYP2D6.
21725985	Are there differences in the catalytic activity per unit enzyme of recombinantly expressed and human liver microsomal cytochrome P450 2C9? A systematic investigation into inter-system extrapolation factors.	The 'relative activity factor' (RAF) compares the activity per unit of microsomal protein in recombinantly expressed cytochrome P450 enzymes (rhCYP) and human liver without separating the potential sources of variation (i.e. abundance of enzyme per mg of protein or variation of activity per unit enzyme). The dimensionless 'inter-system extrapolation factor' (ISEF) dissects differences in activity from those in CYP abundance. Detailed protocols for the determination of this scalar, which is used in population in vitro-in vivo extrapolation (IVIVE), are currently lacking. The present study determined an ISEF for CYP2C9 and, for the first time, systematically evaluated the effects of probe substrate, cytochrome b5 and methods for assessing the intrinsic clearance (CL(int) ). Values of ISEF for S-warfarin, tolbutamide and diclofenac were 0.750.18, 0.570.07 and 0.370.07, respectively, using CL(int) values derived from the kinetic values V(max) and K(m) of metabolite formation in rhCYP2C9 + reductase + b5 BD Supersomes. The ISEF values obtained using rhCYP2C9+reductase BD Supersomes were more variable, with values of 7.161.25, 0.890.52 and 0.500.05 for S-warfarin, tolbutamide and diclofenac, respectively. Although the ISEF values obtained from rhCYP2C9 + reductase + b5 for the three probe substrates were statistically different (p<0.001), the use of the mean value of 0.54 resulted in predicted oral clearance values for all three substrates within 1.4 fold of the observed literature values. For consistency in the relative activity across substrates, use of a b5 expressing recombinant system, with the intrinsic clearance calculated from full kinetic data is recommended for generation of the CYP2C9 ISEF. Furthermore, as ISEFs have been found to be sensitive to differences in accessory proteins, rhCYP system specific ISEFs are recommended.
17943661	CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 catalyse the conversion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist CJ-036878 to two novel dimers.	CJ-036878, N-(3-phenethoxybenzyl)-4-hydroxybenzamide, was developed as an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR2B subunit. Two dimeric metabolites, CJ-047710 and CJ-047713, were identified from the incubation mixture with CJ-036878 in human liver microsomes (HLM). The identification of the enzymes involved in the formation of these dimeric metabolites was investigated in the current study. Inhibition of the formation of CJ-047710 and CJ-047713 in pooled HLM by 1-aminobenztriazole, SKF-525A, and ketoconazole were observed. Ketoconazole played a significant role in inhibiting formation of these two metabolites in a concentration-dependent manner. Recombinant CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 exhibited a markedly high activity toward the formation of CJ-047710 and CJ-047713 from CJ-036878, but the contribution of other CYP enzymes to these formations was at a very low level or negligible. The formation of CJ-047710 and CJ-047713 in pooled HLM, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5 showed sigmoid characteristics. S50 values for CJ-047710 and CJ-047713 formation in HLM were almost equivalent with those for CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. For the CYP3A enzymes, maximal clearance due to auto-activation values for CJ-047710 and CJ-047713 formation catalysed by CYP3A5 were 3.6- and 3.1-fold higher than those catalysed by CYP3A4. This is the first report that shows both CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 simultaneously contribute to dimerization through oxidative C-C and C-O coupling reactions.
16299162	Development of novel furanocoumarin dimers as potent and selective inhibitors of CYP3A4.	Grapefruit juice has been found to cause an increase in the oral bioavailability of many therapeutic agents. Such interactions are believed to result from the mechanism-based inhibition of CYP3A4 activity in the intestine. Furanocoumarin dimers present in the juice have been found to be extremely potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity. The aim of this work was to synthesize and test a series of dimers with a view to defining the relationship between structure and inhibitory activity and establish whether they might make suitable probes of CYP3A4 activity. Eleven furanocoumarin dimers were synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors of CYP3A4 using human liver microsomes, with testosterone as the marker substrate. Four of the most potent dimers were also investigated for their effects on CYP3A4 activity in the human intestine and on five additional hepatic cytochrome P450 isoforms. The dimers showed potent dose-dependent inhibition of CYP3A4 activity in both liver and intestine; IC50 values ranged from 0.021 +/- 0.002 to 0.146 +/- 0.041 microM (mean +/- S.D. n = 3). Of the four dimers evaluated further, all showed time-dependent inhibition of CYP3A4 activity. 88Prop showed moderate inhibition of both CYP2C19 and CYP1A2 with IC50 values of 4.42 +/- 0.01 and 1.98 +/- 0.34 microM, 88Octa was found to inhibit CYP2C19 (IC50 = 3.16 +/- 0.01 microM) and 58Prop to inhibit CYP1A2 (IC50 = 2.39 +/- 0.77 microM). Minimal inhibition of CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 was observed (IC50 > 10 microM). In conclusion, all the dimers tested were extremely potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity. In particular, dimer 55EE was highly selective toward the enzyme, suggesting that this compound is a suitable probe for determining the contribution of CYP3A4 to drug metabolism.
22101210	The influence of Aspalathus linearis (Rooibos) and dihydrochalcones on adrenal steroidogenesis: quantification of steroid intermediates and end products in H295R cells.	The steroid hormone output of the adrenal gland is crucial in the maintenance of hormonal homeostasis, with hormonal imbalances being associated with numerous clinical conditions which include, amongst others, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Aspalathus linearis (Rooibos), which has been reported to aid stress-related symptoms linked to metabolic diseases, contains a wide spectrum of bioactive phenolic compounds of which aspalathin is unique. In this study the inhibitory effects of Rooibos and the dihydrochalcones, aspalathin and nothofagin, were investigated on adrenal steroidogenesis. The activities of both cytochrome P450 17-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase and cytochrome P450 21-hydroxylase were significantly inhibited in COS-1 cells. In order to study the effect of these compounds in H295R cells, a human adrenal carcinoma cell line, a novel UPLC-MS/MS method was developed for the detection and quantification of twenty-one steroid metabolites using a single chromatographic separation. Under both basal and forskolin-stimulated conditions, the total amount of steroids produced in H295R cells significantly decreased in the presence of Rooibos, aspalathin and nothofagin. Under stimulated conditions, Rooibos decreased the total steroid output 4-fold and resulted in a significant reduction of aldosterone and cortisol precursors. Dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate levels were unchanged, while the levels of androstenedione (A4) and 11-hydroxyandrostenedione (11OH-A4) were inhibited 5.5 and 2.3-fold, respectively. Quantification of 11OH-A4 showed this metabolite to be a major product of steroidogenesis in H295R cells and we confirm, for the first time, that this steroid metabolite is the product of the hydroxylation of A4 by human cytochrome P450 11-hydroxylase. Taken together our results demonstrate that Rooibos, aspalathin and nothofagin influence steroid hormone biosynthesis and the flux through the mineralocorticoid, glucocorticoid and androgen pathways, thus possibly contributing to the alleviation of negative effects arising from elevated glucocorticoid levels.
16841959	Cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol to pyridinium metabolites.	Haloperidol (HP) has been reported to undergo cytochrome P450 (P450)-mediated metabolism to potentially neurotoxic pyridinium metabolites; however, the chemical pathways and specific enzymes involved in these reactions remain to be identified. The aims of the current study were to (i) fully identify the cytochrome P450 enzymes capable of metabolizing HP to the pyridinium metabolite, 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutylpyridinium (HPP(+)), and reduced HP (RHP) to 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxybutylpyridinium (RHPP(+)); and (ii) determine whether 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (HPTP) and 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxybutyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (RHPTP) were metabolic intermediates in these pathways. In vitro studies were conducted using human liver microsomal preparations and recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450s 1A1, 1A2, 1B1, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19 2D6, 2E1, 3A4, 3A5, and 3A7) expressed in bicistronic format with human NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase in Escherichia coli membranes. Pyridinium formation from HP and RHP was highly correlated across liver preparations, suggesting the same enzyme or enzymes were responsible for both reactions. Cytochrome P450s 3A4, 3A5, and 3A7 were the only recombinant enzymes which demonstrated significant catalytic activity under optimized conditions, although trace levels of activity could be catalyzed by NADPH-P450 reductase alone. NADPH-P450 reductase-mediated activity was inhibited by reduced glutathione but not catalase or superoxide dismutase, suggesting O(2)-dependent oxidation. No evidence was obtained to support the contention that HPTP and RHPTP are intermediates in these pathways. K(m) values for HPP(+) (34 +/- 5 microM) and RHPP(+) (64 +/- 4 microM) formation by recombinant P450 3A4 agreed well with those obtained with human liver microsomes, consistent with P450 3A4 being the major catalyst of pyridinium metabolite formation in human liver.
16397282	Pharmacokinetics of otamixaban, a direct factor Xa inhibitor, in healthy male subjects: pharmacokinetic model development for phase 2/3 simulation of exposure.	The pharmacokinetics of otamixaban was investigated in healthy male subjects over a wide range of intravenous doses, with duration of administration varying between 1-minute infusions (bolus dose) and 24-hour infusions, using noncompartmental and multicompartmental methods. A global compartmental analysis (2 and 3 compartments) generated a single set of pharmacokinetic parameters, regardless of infusion rate and duration, and took into account the 30% decrease in clearance and volume of distribution observed over the dose range. The 2-compartment model was retained to predict bolus plus 3-hour-infusion doses of otamixaban for future phase (2/3) studies. Otamixaban exhibited in healthy subjects several interesting pharmacokinetic features in view of its potential therapeutic use in coronary thrombosis: a rapid plasma distribution and elimination, a well-described dose-exposure relationship, a low intersubject variability in plasma exposure, and a mixed renal and biliary excretion with constant renal clearance.
16891247	In vitro metabolism of the epoxide substructure of cryptophycins by cytosolic glutathione S-transferase: species differences and stereoselectivity.	The enzyme kinetics of the glutathione (GSH) conjugation of cryptophycin 52 (C52, R-stereoisomer) and cryptophycin 53 (C53, S-stereoisomer) by cytosolic glutathione S-transferases (cGSTs) from human, rat, mouse, dog and monkey liver were studied. Vmax, Km, and CLint values for glutathione conjugation of C52 (R-stereoisomer) were 0.10 +/- 0.01 nmol min-1 mg-1, 3.24 +/- 0.23 microM, and (3.15 +/- 0.09) x 10(-2) ml min-1 mg-1, respectively, in human cytosol. Due to limited solubility relative to the Km, only CLint values were determined in rat ((7.76 +/- 0.10) x 10-2 ml min-1 mg-1) and mouse ((7.61 +/- 0.50) x 10(-2) ml min-1 mg-1) cytosol. Enzyme kinetic parameters could not be determined for C53 (S-stereoisomer). Microsomal GSH conjugation in human, rat, and mouse was attributed to cytosolic contamination. No GSH conjugation was seen in any biological matrix from dog or monkey. There was little GSH conjugation of C53 by cytosol or microsomes from any species. The metabolism of C52 and C53 by epoxide hydrolase was also investigated. No diol product was observed in any biological matrix from any species. Thus, cGSTs are primarily responsible for C52 metabolism.
15039300	Amino acid residue ILE211 is essential for the enzymatic activity of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A10 (UGT1A10).	Conjugation of exogenous and endogenous compounds by uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) is a pathway catalyzing the transfer of a glucuronic acid molecule from UDP glucuronic acid to lipophilic aglycones, which become more polar and more easily excretable in the bile or urine. UGTs are divided into two major families, UGT1 and UGT2. The isoform UGT1A10, along with UGT1A7 and UGT1A8, is expressed exclusively in extrahepatic tissues, notably in the gastrointestinal tract. Here, we report the isolation of a mutant clone of the human UGT1A10, at position 211 of the protein, where a threonine residue replaces an isoleucine residue (allele Thr211). Because the isoleucine is conserved among many UGT1A isoforms, we proceeded to the analysis of the activity of the wild-type UGT1A10 (T211I) and compared it with that of the variant enzyme (I211T(*)). In vitro assays with microsomal extracts from stably expressing human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells showed that the mutant enzyme lost all detectable activity toward major substrates, which demonstrate that the residue isoleucine at position 211 is essential for UGT1A10 activity. Mutant UGT1A10 (I211T(*)) also lost all detectable activity toward mycophenolic acid. Genomic DNA from 103 unrelated individuals was sequenced for this mutation, and two heterozygous genotypes were detected for this mutation (frequency: 2 per 100 individuals). Because UGT1A10 appears to be expressed in all gastrointestinal tissues and is active toward a wide range of substrates, lack of activity of this isoform may have an impact on individual glucuronidation efficiency.
17576809	Identification of rat and human cytochrome p450 isoforms and a rat serum esterase that metabolize the pyrethroid insecticides deltamethrin and esfenvalerate.	The metabolism of (alphaS)-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl (1R, 3R)-cis-3-(2,2-dibromovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate (deltamethrin) and (alphaS)-cyano-3-phenoxybenzyl 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-methylbutyrate (esfenvalerate) by rat and human liver microsomes differs with respect to the biotransformation pathway (oxidation versus hydrolysis) responsible for their clearance. This study aims to further explore the species differences in the metabolism of these chemicals. Using a parent depletion approach, rat and human cytochromes P450 (P450s) were screened for their ability to eliminate deltamethrin or esfenvalerate during in vitro incubations. Rat P450 isoforms CYP1A1, CYP2C6, CYP2C11, and CYP3A2 and human P450 isoforms CYP2C8, CYP2C19, and CYP3A5 were capable of metabolizing either pyrethroid. Human CYP2C9 metabolized esfenvalerate but not deltamethrin. Rat and human P450s that metabolize esfenvalerate and deltamethrin do so with similar kinetics. In addition to the liver, a potential site of metabolic elimination of pyrethroids is the blood via serum carboxylesterase (CE) hydrolysis. The serum of rats, but not humans, contains significant quantities of CE. Deltamethrin and esfenvalerate were metabolized effectively by rat serum and a purified rat serum CE. In contrast, neither pyrethroid was metabolized by human serum or purified human serum esterases (acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase). These studies suggest that the difference in rates of oxidative metabolism of pyrethroids by rat and human hepatic microsomes is dependent on the expression levels of individual P450 isoforms rather than their specific activity. Furthermore, these studies show that the metabolic elimination of deltamethrin and esfenvalerate in blood may be important to their disposition in rats but not in humans.
8430062	Prodrugs of peptides. 18. Synthesis and evaluation of various esters of desmopressin (dDAVP).	Various aliphatic carboxylic acid esters and a carbonate ester of the tyrosine phenolic group in desmopressin were synthesized to assess their suitability as prodrugs with improved bioavailability compared to the parent peptide. The chemical stability of the esters in aqueous solution was similar to that of simple phenol esters. The derivatives were quantitatively converted to desmopressin by enzymatic hydrolysis in human plasma and rabbit liver homogenate. The esters with a straight side chain were rapidly hydrolyzed by alpha-chymotrypsin, but the sterically hindered pivalate ester proved more stable than desmopressin itself toward this proteolytic enzyme. All the esters were more lipophilic than desmopressin in terms of octanol-buffer partition coefficients. The transport of the compounds across confluent monolayers of Caco-2 cells was examined. No correlation between permeability and lipophilicity was found but the pivalate ester showed a markedly higher flux relative to desmopressin. It is concluded that appropriate esterification of desmopressin at its tyrosine group may be a potentially useful prodrug approach.
19270373	Different profiles of quercetin metabolites in rat plasma: comparison of two administration methods.	The bioavailability of polyphenols in human and rodents has been discussed regarding their biological activity. We found different metabolite profiles of quercetin in rat plasma between two administration procedures. A single intragastric administration (50 mg/kg) resulted in the appearance of a variety of metabolites in the plasma, whereas only a major fraction was detected by free access (1% quercetin). The methylated/non-methylated metabolites ratio was much higher in the free access group. Mass spectrometric analyses showed that the fraction from free access contained highly conjugated quercetin metabolites such as sulfo-glucuronides of quercetin and methylquercetin. The metabolite profile of human plasma after an intake of onion was similar to that with intragastric administration in rats. In vitro oxidation of human low-density lipoprotein showed that methylation of the catechol moiety of quercetin significantly attenuated the antioxidative activity. These results might provide information about the bioavailability of quercetin when conducting animal experiments.
17535057	Serum Rifampicin Levels in Patients with Tuberculosis : Effect of P-Glycoprotein and CYP3A4 Blockers on its Absorption.	To identify patients with tuberculosis (TB) showing poor bioavailability for rifampicin and to delineate the role of possible factors such as overexpression of intestinal cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and P-glycoprotein (PGP) in the drug's bioavailability by administering known blockers. PATIENTS, DESIGN AND SETTING: 77 clinically proven TB patients were included in this nonblinded, randomised, comparative trial carried out at one centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. The concentrations of rifampicin and its active metabolite, 25-desacetylrifampicin (DRMP), were measured in blood samples of the 77 TB patients at 0, 1, 2 and 4 hours after their usual morning rifampicin dose. Of these, 19 patients showing the lowest area under the concentration-time curve values from 0 to 4 hours after administration (AUC(0-4)) were selected and pretreated with a single dose of either verapamil (80mg) or itraconazole (200mg) as both PGP and CYP3A4 blockers 1 hour prior to rifampicin administration. Rifampicin and DRMP concentrations were estimated using high performance liquid chromatography in all serum samples collected at the same timepoints. A statistically significant increase (p < 0.05) was found both in the serum levels of rifampicin at 2 hours and in the AUC(0-4)values (158% and 84%, respectively) after pretreatment with verapamil. However, an increase in the levels of rifampicin was found to be insignificant on pretreatment with itraconazole. The estimated levels of DRMP also supported these results. The increase in rifampicin levels on administration of a PGP/CYP3A4 blocker suggests a pivotal role for PGP/CYP3A4 in the absorption of rifampicin in patients with TB, which may be responsible for lower or variable levels of rifampicin.
12506987	Biotransformation of (-)-verbenone by human liver microsomes.	The biotransformation of (-)-verbenone was investigated with human liver microsomes by using GC-MS. Regioselective biotransformation was observed when (-)-verbenone was incubated with the liver microsomes. (-)-10-Hydroxyverbenone was formed from (-)-verbenone of kinetic analysis showed that the Km and Vmax values for the hydroxylation of (-)-verbenone by liver microsomes from three human samples, HG-70, HG-56 and HG-23, were 1.1 mM and 4.8 nmol/min/nmol P450, 0.6 mM and 2.1 nmol/min/nmol P450, and 2.8 mM and 4.6 nmol/min/nmol P450, respectively.
8889679	Detection of amphetamine following administration of fenproporex.	Drugs that are metabolized to amphetamine or methamphetamine are potentially significant concerns in the interpretation of amphetamine-positive drug testing results. A number of different compounds have been reported to produce amphetamine in the urine of users. One of these compounds, fenproporex, has been shown to produce amphetamine. Previous reports indicate that the parent compound can be detected only for a few hours following administration, whereas the amphetamine can be detected for several days. Administration of fenproporex to five healthy volunteers resulted in amphetamine being detected in the urine of all subjects. Peak concentrations of amphetamine were detected at approximately 6-20 h postdose and ranged from approximately 1200 to 2100 ng/mL amphetamine. Amphetamine could be detected (> 5 ng/mL) in the urine for up to 119 h. Analysis of the metabolically produced amphetamine showed the presence of both enantiomers, which can be helpful in the differentiation of some illicit amphetamine use from the use of this precursor drug. More significantly, all samples that contained amphetamine at a concentration of at least 500 ng/mL were shown to also contain measurable amounts of the parent compound.
8203896	Human liver microsomes are efficient catalysts of 1,3-butadiene oxidation: evidence for major roles by cytochromes P450 2A6 and 2E1.	Previously, we provided evidence for the involvement of multiple cytochrome P450 enzymes in the metabolism of 1,3-butadiene, a rodent and possibly a human carcinogen, to butadiene monoxide in mouse and rat liver microsomes. In this study, 1,3-butadiene oxidation by seven cDNA-expressed human P450 enzymes and by human, mouse, and rat liver microsomes was characterized. Incubations with cDNA-expressed human P450 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2D6, and 2E1 resulted in the formation of butadiene monoxide, whereas incubations with P450 1A1 and 3A4 did not lead to the detection of any metabolite. Of the active isozymes examined, P450 2A6 and 2E1 were the most active when butadiene monoxide formation rates were normalized for the P450 content of the microsomes. With six human liver microsomal samples, 1,3-butadiene oxidation exhibited nearly threefold individual variation in the amounts of butadiene monoxide detected, and butadiene monoxide formation was NADPH- and time-dependent and was inhibited by the addition of 1-benzyl-imidazole or 4-methylpyrazole, known cytochrome P450 inhibitors. Correlation studies provided evidence for major roles by P450 2A6 and 2E1 in 1,3-butadiene oxidation in human liver microsomes. Butadiene monoxide formation rates in human liver microsomes were similar, or higher, than the rate obtained in mouse liver microsomes, whereas 1,3-butadiene oxidation rates in human and mouse liver microsomes were higher than the rate obtained in rat liver microsomes. These results provide direct evidence that 1,3-butadiene is a substrate for multiple P450 enzymes and suggest that humans may be at higher risk of expressing 1,3-butadiene toxicity compared to mice or rats. In addition, these results suggest that the mouse may be the more appropriate animal model to assess human risk.
15618693	Evidence for singlet oxygen involvement in rat and human cytochrome P450-dependent substrate oxidations.	Recently, we proposed that singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) plays an essential role in microsomal cytochrome P450 (P450)-dependent p-hydroxylation of aniline and O-deethylation of 7-ethoxycoumarin. We then examined whether the role of (1)O(2) is general in the P450-dependent substrate oxidations. In the present study, we examined omega- and (omega-1)-hydroxylations of lauric acid, O-demethylation of p-nitroanisole, and N-demethylation of aminopyrine in rat liver microsomes. The addition of beta-carotene and NaN(3) significantly suppressed these reactions in a concentration-dependent manner, and (1)O(2) during the reactions was detected by ESR spin-trapping using 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidone (TMPD) as a (1)O(2)-spin trapping reagent, where the addition of (1)O(2) quenchers, SKF-525A as a P450 inhibitor, or p-nitroanisole decreased ESR signal intensities due to TMPD-(1)O(2) adduct. Next, we examined the effect of (1)O(2) quenchers on P450-dependent reactions in the human liver microsomes, and (1)O(2) was also indicated to be an active species in substrate hydroxylations and dealkylations such as nifedipine oxidation by CYP3A4. On the basis of the results, we concluded that (1)O(2) is an essentially important active oxygen species in both rat and human P450-dependent substrate oxidations.
12919726	Diversity of selective environmental substrates for human cytochrome P450 2A6: alkoxyethers, nicotine, coumarin, N-nitrosodiethylamine, and N-nitrosobenzylmethylamine.	Cytochrome P450 2A6 constitutes 5-10% of the total microsomal CYPs of human liver. Although CYP2A6 is the major coumarin 7-hydroxylase, other known substrates of CYP2A6 include many toxicants and precarcinogens. The chemical structure diversity of these substrates raises the question of their selectivity. Thus, kinetic parameters were determined for the hydroxylation of five substrates of diverse chemical structures known to be selective for cytochrome P450 2A6: methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), nicotine, coumarin, N-nitrosobenzylmethylamine (NBzMA), and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA). Sources of enzymes were either human liver microsomes or heterologously expressed CYPs. Coumarin was shown to be the substrate with the highest affinity, followed by NDEA, nicotine, NBzMA, and MTBE. Variability of CYP2A6 catalytic activities in human liver was between 24-fold for MTBE to sevenfold for coumarin, while CYP2A6 content varied 68-fold in human liver microsomes. These five catalytic activities were highly significantly correlated between them and with hepatic CYP2A6 content. The most selective chemical inhibitor of these five substrates was shown to be 8-methoxypsoralen. Based upon chemical inhibition of the enzymatic activities of pure recombinant human CYPs, it cannot be totally excluded that P450s other than CYP2A6, especially CYP2E1, are involved, although to a lesser extent, in NDEA and NBzMA metabolism. In conclusion, the prototype probes for CYP2A6 phenotyping are coumarin and nicotine.
15371986	Role of hepatic and intestinal cytochrome P450 3A and 2B6 in the metabolism, disposition, and miotic effects of methadone.	The disposition of the long-acting opioid methadone, used to prevent opiate withdrawal and treat short- and long-lasting pain, is highly variable. Methadone undergoes N -demethylation to the primary metabolite 2-ethyl-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolinium (EDDP), catalyzed in vitro by intestinal, hepatic, and expressed cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. However, the role of CYP3A4 in human methadone disposition in vivo is unclear. This investigation tested the hypothesis that CYP3A induction (or inhibition) would increase (or decrease) methadone metabolism and clearance in humans. Healthy volunteers were studied in a randomized, balanced, 4-way crossover study. They received intravenous (IV) midazolam (to assess CYP3A4 activity) and then simultaneous oral deuterium-labeled and IV unlabeled methadone after pretreatment with rifampin (INN, rifampicin) (hepatic/intestinal CYP3A induction), troleandomycin (hepatic/intestinal CYP3A inhibition), grapefruit juice (selective intestinal CYP3A inhibition), or nothing. Methadone effects were measured by dark-adapted pupil diameter. CYP isoforms catalyzing methadone metabolism by human liver microsomes and expressed CYPs in vitro were also evaluated. Methadone had high oral bioavailability (70%) and low intestinal (22%) and hepatic (9%) extraction, and there was a significant correlation ( r = 0.94, P <.001) between oral bioavailability and intestinal (but not hepatic) availability. Rifampin decreased bioavailability and oral and IV methadone plasma concentrations and increased IV clearance (4.42 +/- 1.00 mL. kg -1. min -1 versus 1.61 +/- 0.67 mL. kg -1. min -1, P <.05) and oral clearance (8.50 +/- 3.68 mL. kg -1. min -1 versus 2.05 +/- 0.92 mL. kg -1. min -1, P <.05), EDDP/methadone area under the curve (AUC) ratios, EDDP formation clearances, and hepatic extraction (0.27 +/- 0.06 versus 0.09 +/- 0.04, P <.05). Troleandomycin and grapefruit juice decreased the EDDP/methadone AUC ratio after oral methadone (0.17 +/- 0.10 and 0.14 +/- 0.06 versus 0.27 +/- 0.20, P <.05) but not IV methadone and had no effect on methadone plasma concentrations, IV clearance (1.29 +/- 0.41 mL. kg -1. min -1 and 1.48 +/- 0.55 mL. kg -1. min -1 ) or oral clearance (2.05 +/- 1.52 mL. kg -1. min -1 and 1.89 +/- 1.07 mL. kg -1. min -1 ), or other kinetic parameters. There was no correlation between methadone clearance and hepatic CYP3A4 activity. Pupil diameter changes reflected plasma methadone concentrations. In vitro experiments showed a predominant role for both CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 in liver microsomal methadone N -demethylation. First-pass intestinal metabolism is a determinant of methadone bioavailability. Intestinal and hepatic CYP3A activity only slightly affects human methadone N -demethylation but has no significant effect on methadone concentrations, clearance, or clinical effects. Greater rifampin effects, compared with troleandomycin and grapefruit juice, on methadone disposition suggest a major role for intestinal transporters and for other CYPs, such as CYP2B6. Interindividual variability and drug interactions affecting intestinal transporter and hepatic CYP3A and CYP2B6 activity may alter methadone disposition.
19111594	DNA damage, signalling and repair after exposure of cells to the sulphur mustard analogue 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulphide.	Sulphur mustard (SM) is a blistering agent that is directly toxic to the skin and mucosal surfaces of the eye and respiratory system. Symptoms take several hours to develop and the mechanism of action is poorly understood although SM is able to alkylate nucleic acids and proteins. The ability of SM to form adducts with DNA has been documented, although there are limited data demonstrating how cells respond to this insult to repair the damage. This study used the sulphur mustard surrogate 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulphide (CEES) to identify DNA damage repair pathways and signalling events that are activated after exposure to the agent. A dose-dependent increase in DNA damage was observed in TK6 lymphoblastoid cells, which was associated with a loss of cell viability. Using both model human lymphoblastoid cell lines and pharmacological inhibitors, it was found that DNA damage induced by CEES was repaired by base excision repair (BER) and nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathways. Finally, CEES was found to induce the phosphorylation of p53 and Chk2 and these events were mediated by both the ATM ataxia telangiectasia mutated and ATR (ATM and Rad-3 related) protein kinases.
7354440	Tocainide conjugation in humans: novel biotransformation pathway for a primary amine.	The metabolism of tocainide, an experimental antiarrhythmic drug, was studied in humans. Urinary excretion of unchanged drug was 28-55% in 24 hr after oral dosing. Urine hydrolysis with hydrochloric acid or beta-glucuronidase increased tocainide recovery to 55-79%. Saccharo-1,4-lactone inhibited the beta-glucuronidase-mediated tocainide recovery increase. Adjustment of urine to pH 13 produced a compound identified as 3-(2,6-xylyl)-5-methylhydantoin. Evidence suggests that it was derived from the same metabolite that formed the additional tocainide after acid or beta-glucuronidase treatment. Tocainide carbamoyl O-beta-D-glucuronide is the structure proposed for the metabolite. The suggested pathway for its formation involves the addition of carbon dioxide to the amino nitrogen of tocainide followed by uridine diphosphate-glucuronic acid conjugation.
16728485	A phase I study assessing the safety and pharmacokinetics of the thrombospondin-1-mimetic angiogenesis inhibitor ABT-510 with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with solid tumors.	The aim of the study was to determine the safety profile, pharmacokinetics and potential drug interactions of the angiogenesis inhibitor ABT-510 combined with gemcitabine-cisplatin chemotherapy in patients with solid tumors. Patients with advanced solid tumors received gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 intravenously (i.v.) on days 1 and 8 and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 on day 1 of a 3-week cycle in combination with ABT-510. ABT-510 was administered subcutaneously twice daily at doses of 50 mg or 100 mg. Plasma samples for pharmacokinetics were obtained on days 1 (gemcitabine, cisplatin as single agents), 15 (ABT-510 as single agent) and 22 (gemcitabine, cisplatin and ABT-510 as combination). Thirteen patients received ABT-510 as either 50 mg b.i.d. (seven patients) or 100 mg b.i.d. (six patients) in combination with gemcitabine-cisplatin. The most common reported adverse events reflected the known toxicity profile induced by gemcitabine-cisplatin without ABT-510. One episode of hemoptysis occurred in a patient with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after 13 days of treatment. No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions between ABT-510, gemcitabine and platinum were observed. Three partial responses were observed in 12 evaluable patients (one head and neck cancer, one melanoma and one NSCLC). Combining ABT-510 at doses of 50 mg and 100 mg with gemcitabine-cisplatin is feasible. Pharmacokinetic interactions were not observed and adding ABT-510 does not appear to increase toxicity.
20363952	Metabolism and disposition of [14C]BMS-690514 after oral administration to rats, rabbits, and dogs.	(3R,4R)-4-Amino-1-((4-((3-methoxyphenyl)amino)pyrrolo[2,1-f] [1,2,4]triazin-5-yl)methyl)-3-piperidinol (BMS-690514) is a potent inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptors 1, 2, and 4 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1 through 3. BMS-690514 is an oral oncologic agent currently being developed for the treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer and breast cancer. In this investigation, a series of studies was conducted to determine the biotransformation of [(14)C]BMS-690514 after oral administration to rats, rabbits, and dogs. After administration of a single oral dose of [(14)C]BMS-690514 to rats and dogs, the majority of the radioactive dose (61-71%) was recovered in the feces, whereas 18 to 20% was eliminated in urine. In bile duct-cannulated rats, 83 and 17% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in the bile and urine, respectively, suggesting that biliary secretion was a major route for the elimination of BMS-690514-derived radioactivity in rats. The parent compound underwent extensive metabolism in both species, with <12% of the administered radioactivity recovered as BMS-690514 in the excreta samples. Metabolite profiles in plasma were qualitatively similar in rats, rabbits, and dogs. Unchanged BMS-690514 was a prominent drug-related component in the plasma profiles from all the species. However, multiple metabolites contributed significantly to the circulating radioactivity, particularly for rabbit and dog, in which metabolites comprised 73 to 93% of the area under the time curve (0-8 h). Circulating metabolites included M6, a direct O-glucuronide conjugate; M1, a hydroxylated metabolite; and glucuronide conjugates of hydroxylated and O-demethylated metabolites. Overall, the results from these studies suggested that BMS-690514 was well absorbed and highly metabolized through multiple pathways in these preclinical species.
17418993	Development and full validation of six inhibition assays for five major cytochrome P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes using an automated 96-well microplate incubation format and LC-MS/MS analysis.	Substrate inhibition assays for five of the major CYP enzymes (phenacetin for CYP1A2, diclofenac for CYP2C9, (S)-mephenytoin for CYP2C19, dextromethorphan for CYP2D6 and midazolam and testosterone for CYP3A4) in human liver microsomes were developed. Fully automated incubations were conducted in a 96-well format under optimized enzyme kinetic conditions. Metabolites of probe substrates were analyzed with rapid LC-MS/MS methods. The assays were fully validated following the procedure for validating bioanalytical methods recommended by regulatory agencies. Quality control samples and a positive control CYP inhibitor were included in each assay. The IC(50) values determined for typical CYP inhibitors were reproducible and consistent with those reported in the literature. The high quality and throughput of these assays make them ideally suited for providing information for decision making in late drug discovery and early development and for providing labeling input for new drug registrations.
18405789	Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability of single increasing doses of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor alogliptin in healthy male subjects.	Alogliptin is a highly selective dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor that is under development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. This study was conducted to characterize the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability of single oral doses of alogliptin in healthy male subjects. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in which healthy, nonobese male subjects between the ages of 18 and 55 years were assigned to 1 of 6 cohorts: alogliptin 25, 50, 100, 200, 400, or 800 mg. One subject in each cohort received placebo. An ascending-dose strategy was used, in which each cohort received its assigned dose only after review of the safety data from the previous cohort. Blood and urine were collected over 72 hours after dosing for pharmacokinetic analysis and determination of plasma DPP-4 inhibition and active glucagon-like peptide -1(GLP-1) concentrations. Thirty-six subjects (66 per cohort) were enrolled and completed the study (29/36 [81% ] white; mean age, 26.6 years; mean weight, 76.0 kg). Alogliptin was rapidly absorbed (median T(max), 1-2 hours) and eliminated slowly (mean t(1/2), 12.4-21.4 hours), primarily via urinary excretion (mean fraction of drug excreted in urine from 0 to 72 hours after dosing, 60%-71%). C(max) and AUC(0-infinity) increased dose proportionally over the range from 25 to 100 mg. The metabolites M-I (N-demethylated) and M-II (N-acetylated) accounted for <2% and <6%, respectively, of alogliptin concentrations in plasma and urine. Across alogliptin doses, mean peak DPP-4 inhibition ranged from 93% to 99%, and mean inhibition at 24 hours after dosing ranged from 74% to 97%. Exposure to active GLP-1 was 2- to 4-fold greater for all alogliptin doses compared with placebo; no dose response was apparent. Hypoglycemia (asymptomatic) was reported in 5 subjects (11 receiving alogliptin 50 mg, 2 receiving alogliptin 200 mg, 1 receiving alogliptin 400 mg, 1 receiving placebo). Other adverse events were reported in 1 subject each: dizziness (alogliptin 100 mg), syncope (alogliptin 200 mg), constipation (alogliptin 200 mg), viral infection (alogliptin 400 mg), hot flush (placebo), and nausea (placebo). In these healthy male subjects, alogliptin at single doses up to 800 mg inhibited plasma DPP-4 activity, increased active GLP-1, and was generally well tolerated, with no dose-limiting toxicity.
15205390	Glucuronidation of the oxidative cytochrome P450-mediated phenolic metabolites of the endocrine disruptor pesticide: methoxychlor by human hepatic UDP-glucuronosyl transferases.	Methoxychlor, a currently used pesticide, is a proestrogen exhibiting estrogenic activity in mammals in vivo. Methoxychlor undergoes oxidative metabolism by cytochromes P450, yielding 1,1,1-trichloro-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethane (mono-OH-M) and 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethane (bis-OH-M) as main metabolites. Since humans may be exposed to these estrogenic metabolites, which are potential substrates of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), their glucuronide conjugation was investigated with human liver preparations and individual UGTs. Incubation of both mono-OH-M and bis-OH-M with human liver microsomes formed monoglucuronides. The structures of the glucuronides were identified by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectometry. Examination of cDNA-expressed recombinant human hepatic UGTs revealed that several catalyze glucuronidation of both compounds. Among the cDNA-expressed UGT1A enzymes, UGT1A9 seemed to be the main catalyst of formation of mono-OH-M-glucuronide, whereas UGT1A3 seemed to be the most active in bis-OH-M-glucuronide formation. Furthermore, the chiral selectivity of mono-OH-M glucuronidation was examined. The results of the incubation of single enantiomers generally agreed with the chiral analyses of mono-OH-M derived from the glucuronidase digestion of the glucuronides of the racemic mono-OH-M. There was a relatively slight but consistent enantioselective preference of individual UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, and UGT2B15 enzymes for glucuronidation of the S- over the R-mono-OH-M, whereas in human liver microsomes differences were observed among donors in generating the respective R/S-mono-OH-M ratio. Since it was previously shown that human liver microsomes demethylate methoxychlor mainly into S-mono-OH-M, the observation that UGT1A isoforms preferentially glucuronidate the S-mono-OH-M suggests a suitable mechanism for eliminating this major enantiomer. This enantiomeric preference, however, is not extended to all samples of human liver microsomes that we tested.
16168605	Use of teicoplanin stationary phase for the enantiomeric resolution of atenolol in human urine by nano-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Nano-liquid chromatography (nano-LC) was used for the enantiomeric resolution of atenolol employing a teicoplanin modified silica stationary phase prepared in our laboratory. Experiments were carried out in a fused silica capillary of 75 microm i.d. packed with chiral modified silica particles of 5 microm diameter. Separated enantiomers were revealed by on-line UV detector at 205 nm or electrospray-ion-trap mass spectrometer (ESI-MS). Atenolol enantiomers were eluted utilizing a mobile phase with the following composition: 500 mM ammonium acetate pH 4.5/methanol/acetonitrile 1:60:39 (v/v/v) allowing to achieve good enantioresolution in a reasonable analysis time (about 8 min) with a flow rate of about 900 nL/min. After comparing the sensitivity of the nano-LC method using a conventional UV detector for capillary electrophoresis, a zeta cell (3 nL volume) employed in nano-LC and the ion-trap MS the method was validated with the MS detector offering the highest sensitivity (limit of detection (LOD)=50 ng/mL; limit of quantification (LOQ)=400 ng/mL for each atenolol enantiomer). (-)-Psi-Nor-ephedrine was used as the internal standard. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of atenolol enantiomers present in human urine samples of a patient under atenolol therapy.
21892639	Simultaneous LC-MS/MS determination of aflatoxin M1, ochratoxin A, deoxynivalenol, de-epoxydeoxynivalenol,  and -zearalenols and fumonisin B1 in urine as a multi-biomarker method to assess exposure to mycotoxins.	Humans and animals can be simultaneously exposed through the diet to different mycotoxins, including aflatoxins, ochratoxin A, deoxynivalenol, zearalenone, and fumonisins, which are the most important. Evaluation of the frequency and levels of human and animal exposure to these mycotoxins can be performed by measuring the levels of the relevant biomarkers in urine. Available data on the toxicokinetics of these mycotoxins in animals suggest that aflatoxin M(1) (AFM(1)), ochratoxin A (OTA), deoxynivalenol (DON)/de-epoxydeoxynivalenol (DOM-1), alpha-zearalenol (-ZOL)/beta-zearalenol (-ZOL), and fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) can be used as urinary biomarkers. A liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric method has been developed for simultaneous determination of these mycotoxin biomarkers in human or animal urine. Urine samples were purified and concentrated by a double cleanup approach, using a multitoxin immunoaffinity column and a reversed-phase SPE Oasis HLB column. Separation of the biomarkers was performed by reversed-phase chromatography using a multi-step linear methanol-water gradient containing 0.5% acetic acid as mobile phase. Detection and quantification of the biomarkers were performed by triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). The clean-up conditions were optimised to obtain maximum analyte recovery and high sensitivity. Recovery from spiked samples was performed at four levels in the range 0.03-12 ng mL(-1), using matrix-matched calibration curves for quantification. Mean recoveries of the biomarkers tested ranged from 62 to 96% with relative standard deviations of 3-20%. Enzymatic digestion with -glucuronidase/sulfatase resulted in increased concentrations of the biomarkers, in both human and pig urine, in most samples containing measurable concentrations of DON, DOM-1, OTA, -ZOL, or -ZOL. A highly variable increase was observed between individuals. Co-occurrence of OTA and DON in human urine is reported herein for the first time.
19131519	Sulfation of o-demethyl apixaban: enzyme identification and species comparison.	Apixaban, a potent and highly selective factor Xa inhibitor, is currently under development for treatment of arterial and venous thrombotic diseases. The O-demethyl apixaban sulfate is a major circulating metabolite in humans but circulates at lower concentrations relative to parent in animals. The aim of this study was to identify the sulfotransferases (SULTs) responsible for the sulfation reaction. Apixaban undergoes O-demethylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 enzymes to O-demethyl apixaban, and then is conjugated by SULTs to form O-demethyl apixaban sulfate. Of the five human cDNA-expressed SULTs tested, SULT1A1 and SULT1A2 exhibited significant levels of catalytic activity for formation of O-demethyl apixaban sulfate, and SULT1A3, SULT1E1, and SULT2A1 showed much lower catalytic activities. In human liver S9, quercetin, a highly selective inhibitor of SULT1A1 and SULT1E1, inhibited O-demethyl apixaban sulfate formation by 99%; 2,6-dichloro-4-nitrophenol, another inhibitor of SULT1A1, also inhibited this reaction by >90%; estrone, a competitive inhibitor for SULT1E1, had no effect on this reaction. The comparable K(m) values for formation of O-demethyl apixaban sulfate were 41.4 microM (human liver S9), 36.8 microM (SULT1A1), and 70.8 microM (SULT1A2). Because of the high level of expression of SULT1A1 in liver and its higher level of catalytic activity for formation of O-demethyl apixaban sulfate, SULT1A1 might play a major role in humans for formation of O-demethyl apixaban sulfate. O-Demethyl apixaban was also investigated in liver S9 of mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and humans. The results indicated that liver S9 samples from dogs, monkeys, and humans had higher activities for formation of O-demethyl apixaban sulfate than those of mice, rats, and rabbits.
15987777	Oxidation of tamoxifen by human flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) 1 and FMO3 to tamoxifen-N-oxide and its novel reduction back to tamoxifen by human cytochromes P450 and hemoglobin.	Tamoxifen (TAM), used as the endocrine therapy of choice for breast cancer, undergoes metabolism primarily forming N-desmethyltamoxifen, 4-hydroxytamoxifen, alpha-hydroxytamoxifen, and tamoxifen-N-oxide (TNO). Our earlier studies demonstrated that flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs) catalyze the formation of TNO. The current study demonstrates that human FMO1 and FMO3 catalyze TAM N-oxidation to TNO and that cytochromes P450 (P450s), but not FMOs, reduce TNO to TAM. CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 all reduced TNO, with CYP2A6, CYP1A1, and CYP3A4 producing the greatest reduction. A portion of TAM formed by CYP3A4-mediated reduction of TNO was further metabolized, but not TAM formed by the other P450s. TNO reduction by P450s is extremely rapid with considerable TAM formation detected at the earliest time point that products could be measured. TAM formation exhibited a lack of linearity with incubation time but increased linearly as a function of TNO and P450 concentration. TNO was converted into TAM by reduced hemoglobin (Hb) and NADPH-P450 oxidoreductase, suggesting involvement of the same heme-Fe(2+) complex in both Hb and P450s. The findings raise the question of whether the reductive activity may be nonenzymatic. Results of this in vitro study demonstrate the potential of TAM and TNO to be interconverted metabolically. FMO seems to be the major enzymatic oxidant, whereas several P450 enzymes and even reduced hemoglobin are capable of reducing TNO back to TAM. The possibility that these processes may comprise a metabolic cycle in vivo is discussed in this article.
2871781	Clinical pharmacokinetics and metabolism of bevantolol.	Bevantolol (the hydrochloride salt) has pharmacokinetic properties that are clinically advantageous. Bevantolol is well absorbed orally (greater than 70%); and the systemic bioavailability is 60%. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved 1 to 2 hours following an oral dose. Elimination is first-order with an average elimination half-life of 1.5 hours. Bevantolol exhibits linear pharmacokinetics within the therapeutic range (100 to 400 mg) with no change in half-life with chronic dosing. These properties result in predictable plasma levels and predictable drug response.
15826601	Bis(pivaloyloxymethyl) thymidine 5'-phosphate is a cell membrane-permeable precursor of thymidine 5'-phosphate in thymidine kinase deficient CCRF CEM cells.	Bis(pivaloyloxymethyl) thymidine 5-phosphate (POM(2)-dTMP) has been investigated as a membrane-permeable prodrugs of dTMP. The growth inhibitory activity of POM(2)-TMP has been compared with thymidine (TdR) in wild type CCRF CEM cells (CEM) and a strain that lacks TdR kinase (CEM tk-). After 72 h incubation at 37 degrees C, TdR showed significant antiproliferative activity (IC(50)=27 microM) against CEM cells but was weakly effective (IC(50)=730 microM) against the mutant cell line. By comparison, bis(pivaloyloxymethyl) thymidine 5'-monophosphate (POM(2)-dTMP) was equally inhibitory (IC(50)=5 microM) to both cell lines. The growth inhibitory effects were reversed by deoxycytidine. Cellular [methyl-(3)H]dTTP pools increased linearly over 2h during incubation of CEM or CEM tk- with 5 microM POM(2)-[methyl-(3)H]dTMP. The incorporation of [methyl-(3)H]TdR into HClO(4)-insoluble cell residue by CEM tk- was <0.1% that of CEM and did not increase over 1h. In contrast, CEM tk- incorporated radioactivity from POM(2)-dTMP into acid insoluble residue at a rate 59% that of CEM. These results demonstrate that POM(2)-dTMP can penetrate into cells and serve as a source of dTMP.
22526410	Novel physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling of patupilone for human pharmacokinetic predictions.	Patupilone (EPO906) is a novel potent microtubule stabilizer, which has been evaluated for cancer treatment. A novel physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) model was developed based on nonclinical data to predict the disposition of patupilone in cancer patients. After a single intravenous dose (1.2 mg/kg) in male Han-Wistar rats, the tissue distribution of (14)C-patupilone was investigated by quantitative whole-body autoradiography (QWBA). The blood radioactivity and patupilone concentration were determined by LC-MS/MS and liquid scintillation counting. A novel PBPK model was developed based on rat tissue concentration data to predict blood concentration-time profiles of patupilone in cancer patients. PBPK parameters derived from the rat were applied to a human PBPK model. Phase I clinical pharmacokinetic data in Caucasian and Japanese cancer patients at various doses ranging from 0.75 to 10 mg/m(2) were successfully described using the PBPK approach. Patupilone dispositions in lung, heart, muscle, spleen, liver, brain, adipose, and testes of rats were well described using the PBPK model developed assuming a perfusion rate-limited distribution between different compartments. For skin and bone marrow, concentration-time profiles were modeled assuming a permeability-limited distribution between different compartments. The simulated human pharmacokinetic profiles from the PBPK model showed good agreement with observed clinical pharmacokinetic data, where the model predicted AUC, t(1/2), V(ss), and CL values were within approximately twofold of the observed values for all dose groups. The distribution of patupilone in rats was well described by a PBPK model based on measured tissue distribution profiles generated by QWBA combined with metabolism data. The human PBPK model adequately predicted blood pharmacokinetics of patupilone in cancer patients. The PBPK model based upon preclinical tissue distribution data can aid in successful prediction of pharmacokinetics in humans.
8043500	Different conversion metabolic rates of testosterone are associated to hormone-sensitive status and -response of human prostate cancer cells.	The main goal of the present work was to compare the ability of human prostate cancer (PCa) cells to metabolize testosterone (T) in living conditions. To this end we studied three different human PCa cell lines (LNCaP, DU145 and PC3) having different hormone-sensitive status and capability of response to androgens. We used an original approach which allows the evaluation of conversion metabolic rates in growing cells after administration of labeled steroid precursor (presently T), at physiological concentrations (1-10 nM). Analysis of both precursor degradation and formation of several products was carried out using reverse phase-high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and "on line" radioactive detection. Comparison of the three human PCa cells revealed that their metabolic aptitude differed in many respects: (i) rates of precursor degradation, (ii) different products' formation, and (iii) extent of conjugate production. In detail, PC3 cells quickly degraded T and exhibited high formation rates of androstenedione (A-4-ene-Ad); both DU145 and LNCaP cells mostly retained high levels of unconverted T, with a limited production of A-4-ene-Ad and its 17-keto derivatives (if any). Either LNCaP or DU145 cells generated a relatively high amount of dihydrotestosterone (DHT). In contrast, neither DHT nor its main metabolites were detected in PC3 cells at both short and longer incubation times. As expected, T degradation and A-4-ene-Ad production were highly correlated (r = 0.97; P < 0.03); similarly, A-4-ene-Ad and DHT formation showed a negative, significant correlation. Negligible production of conjugates was noted in both PC3 and DU145 cells, whilst it was remarkable in LNCaP cells (ranging from 43 to 57%). Overall, our data indicate that human PCa cells degrade T quite differently, favoring alternatively reductive or oxidative patterns of androgen metabolism.
8819299	Specificity of substrate and inhibitor probes for cytochrome P450s: evaluation of in vitro metabolism using cDNA-expressed human P450s and human liver microsomes.	1. We evaluated the specificity of 15 substrates and 14 inhibitors of the cytochrome P450s using nine human P450 forms expressed in HepG2 cells using a recombinant vaccinia virus and also in human liver microsomes. 2. Coumarin, 7-ethoxyresorufin, 7-benzyloxyresorufin, tolbutamide, aniline and diazepam were form-selective substrates towards CYP2A6, the CYP1A subfamily, CYP2B6, the CYP2C subfamily, CYP2E1 and the CYP3A subfamily respectively. However, a selective substrate for CYP2D6 was not found among the chemicals tested. 3. SKF-525A inhibited > 40% of the metabolic activity of all substrates tested, and the inhibitory effects differed among P450 forms. Sulphaphenazole, 7,8-benzoflavone, quinidine and troleandomycin were selective inhibitors of the CYP2C subfamily (except CYP2C19), the CYP1A subfamily, CYP2D6 and the CYP3A subfamily respectively. Methoxsalen (CYP2A6 inhibitor) inhibited the metabolic activity of CYP1A2 as well as that of CYP2A6. Diethyldithiocarbamate (CYP2E1 inhibitor) inhibited the metabolic activities of CYP2A6 and CYP2C19 in addition to that of CYP2E1. 4. Our results indicated that substrates and inhibitors reported as P450 selective probes are not necessarily specific for individual human P450 forms. These results may provide useful information regarding human P450 substrates and inhibitors in vitro using human liver microsomal samples.
12166812	Excretion profiles of ethyl glucuronide in human urine after internal dilution.	Ethyl glucuronide (EG) is a useful marker of alcohol consumption because its presence in urine can be detected up to five days. We investigated the impact of diuresis on the urinary excretion of EG, a minor ethanol metabolite. Seven healthy volunteers drank 250 mL of wine (25 g ethanol) in 15 min and, 240 min later, ingested 1 L of water within 15 min. Urine was voided before the drinking started and every 30-60 min for 400-550 min thereafter. Urinary ethyl glucuronide (UEG), creatinine, and ethanol were determined using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, Jaff's method, and the enzymatic ADH method, respectively. The maximum diuresis coincided with the lowest values of the UEG concentrations of 2 mg/L and the lowest creatinine values of 10 mg/dL 250-400 min after drinking. After drinking the wine, the urinary creatinine decreased slowly. After a short period of increasing, it decreased to minimum values caused by the water intake. After the intake of 1 L water, the diuresis increased within 60 min to its maximum. The amount of ethyl glucuronide excreted in urine was 10 mg (SD 5 mg) corresponding to 0.04% (SD 0.02%) of the dose administered. In successive voids during the elimination phase, the UEG and the diuresis were influenced after the subjects drank 1 L of water. Minimum UEG values of 0.5 mg/L could still be measured. Measuring UEG provides a reliable way to monitor recent drinking of alcohol. However, urinary creatinine needs to be measured additionally. Establishing a cutoff value of 25 mg/dL for urinary creatinine in diluted samples, like for the analysis of illicit drugs, is recommended. If the creatinine value is too low, the analyst has to decide about the further procedure.
14695832	Synthesis, in vitro evaluation, and antileishmanial activity of water-soluble prodrugs of buparvaquone.	Water-soluble phosphate prodrugs of buparvaquone (1), containing a hydroxynaphthoquinone structure, were synthesized and evaluated in vitro for improved topical and oral drug delivery against cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis. The successful prodrug synthesis involved a strong base; e.g., sodium hydride. Buparvaquone-3-phosphate (4a) and 3-phosphonooxymethyl-buparvaquone (4b) prodrugs possessed significantly higher aqueous solubilities (>3.5 mg/mL) than the parent drug (</=0.03 microg/mL) over a pH range of 3.0-7.4. Moreover, 4a and 4b maintained adequate lipophilicity as indicated by distribution coefficients (log D) between 0.5 and 3.0 over this pH range. Both 4a and 4b were also shown to be substrates for alkaline phosphatase in vitro and thus are promising bioreversible prodrugs for the improved topical and oral bioavailability of 1. Buparvaquone and its prodrugs showed nanomolar or low-micromolar ED(50) activity values against species that cause cutaneous leishmaniasis, e.g., L. major, L. amazonensis, L. aethiopica, L. mexicana, and L. panamensis and also L. donovani, which is the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis. From these results, the human skin permeation of the prodrugs 4a and 4b were studied in vitro. While no buparvaquone permeated across post mortem skin in vitro during 72 h of experiments, both prodrugs 4a and 4b permeated readily through the skin. In addition, 4b easily released the parent drug in human skin homogenate and, therefore, is a promising prodrug candidate to deliver buparvaquone through the skin for the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
9140699	Involvement of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 in the metabolism of haloperidol.	1. Human cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes expressed in a human cell line were used to elucidate their involvement in the metabolism of haloperidol (HAL). 2. It was found that CYP3A4 catalyzes the metabolism of HAL to HAL 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (HTP). HTP is further metabolized to HAL pyridinium (HP+) by both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. 3. CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are also responsible for the N-dealkylation of HAL. The N-dealkylation of reduced HAL (RH) was observed, which is catalyzed by CYP3A4. In addition, CYP3A4 also catalyzes the oxidation of RH back to HAL. 4. These results are discussed in terms of the metabolic interactions of HAL with other drugs and how this knowledge may be used to reduce the movement disorders induced by HAL.
16096702	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of docetaxel, irinotecan, and celecoxib in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.	We studied the toxicities, potential pharmacokinetic interactions, and preliminary antitumor activity of the combination of docetaxel and irinotecan with celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor. Eligible patients had advanced non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) with measurable disease, good performance status, and adequate end organ function. Docetaxel and irinotecan were administered intravenously on days 1 and 8, every 21 days, and their doses were escalated on successive patient cohorts at three dose levels: 30/50, 30/60, and 35/60 (doses in mg/m2). Celecoxib was administered at a starting dose of 400 mg orally twice daily without interruption, beginning on day 2 of cycle 1. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed on day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2. Seventeen patients with advanced NSCLC were enrolled and collectively received 78 cycles of therapy. Diarrhea was the most common toxicity; it was noted in 13 patients (76%). Dose-limiting toxicities occurred at dose level 1 (myocardial infarction in a patient with multiple coronary artery disease risk factors) and dose level 3 (grade 4 neutropenia with fatal urosepsis). Other major toxicities were: grade 3 neutropenia (2 patients); grade 3/4 diarrhea (3/1); grade 3 nausea (2); grade 2 rash (1); and grade 3 pneumonitis (1). The maximum tolerated dose was at dose level 3, i.e., docetaxel 35 mg/m2 and irinotecan 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8, plus celecoxib 400 mg twice daily, repeated every 21 days. Five of 15 evaluable patients achieved an objective response. The pharmacokinetics of docetaxel were not altered by celecoxib. However, we observed an 18% increase in the average elimination clearance of irinotecan coincident with the addition of celecoxib. The addition of celecoxib to docetaxel and irinotecan was generally well tolerated but unpredictable fatal toxicity occurred. Diarrhea was the most common toxicity. Antitumor activity was promising. The alteration of irinotecan pharmacokinetic parameters observed may not be clinically relevant.
17478128	Development of a simple column-switching high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for rapid and simultaneous routine serum monitoring of lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine and 10-monohydroxycarbazepine (MHD).	Using isocratic column-switching high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) we established a group method for automated quantitative analysis of the antiepileptic drugs lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine and its metabolite 10-monohydroxycarbazepine (MHD) that are also used in psychiatry as mood stabilizers. Samples were cleaned from interfering proteins and lipids by transfer onto a pre-column, using a PerfectBond C-8 material, with 8% acetonitrile in water as a pre-column eluent. Separation was performed by elution onto the analytical column (Betasil C6 5 microm, 250 mm x 4.6 mm) at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min with potassium dihydrogenphosphate buffer (20 mmol/l, pH3.0)/acetonitrile (70/30; v/v) as analytical eluent. UV-spectrophotometric detection was set to 215 nm for all three compounds. The analytical run was finished within 18 min. Detection limit was 30 ng/ml for lamotrigine, 35 ng/ml for oxcarbazepine and 25 ng/ml for 10-monohydroxycarbazepine. The method was found to be suitable for automated analysis of serum samples of patients treated with lamotrigine and oxcarbazepine.
8991188	Liver function tests and lidocaine metabolism (MEGX test) during i.v. CMF therapy in breast cancer.	The measurement of monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX test) is considered a sensitive method for the evaluation of hepatic metabolic capacity. The multidrug chemotherapy CMF (cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2, methotrexate 40 mg/ m2, 5-fluorouracil 600 mg/m2) is widely used in breast cancer patients but very few clinical studies have investigated its possible liver toxicity. We have prospectively evaluated the possible acute liver toxicity after a cycle (i.e. two courses) of CMF by means of the measurement of standard liver function tests and of MEGX, i.e. the main lidocaine (Lid) metabolite after the i.v. injection of Lid. Consecutive patients (n = 15), aged 43-68 years, were radically operated on because of M0 primary breast cancer and candidates for adjuvant CMF because of nodal axillary involvement (pN1) were studied. Tests were performed before the first (given at day 1) and 48 h after the second course (given at day 8) of an i.v. CMF regimen to be repeated every 28 days. Full blood count, serum ALT, AST, gamma-GT, alkaline phosphatase and albumin were measured with standard methods. To investigate the appearance of MEGX, blood samples were taken before, and 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 and 60 min after i.v. Lid injection. MEGX serum concentration was measured by means of a fluorescent polarization immunoassay. We found no significant variation between pre- and post-CMF standard liver function tests with the exception of ALT levels, which, however, decreased (mean 48%, p < 0.05). The MEGX serum concentration was significantly increased over the sampling time period and the 42% mean rise was statistically significant (p < 0.001). Moreover, the post-CMF increase of circulating MEGX was steeper than the basal pre-CMF values. The slopes relating to the curves of MEGX formation over the first 20 min were 3.30 and 2.24, respectively (p < 0.001). In conclusion, no hepatic acute toxicity was observed during the CMF chemotherapy. Further studies are required to understand the meaning of the unexpected MEGX rise.
16720684	N-glucuronidation of perfluorooctanesulfonamide by human, rat, dog, and monkey liver microsomes and by expressed rat and human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.	N-Alkylperfluorooctanesulfonamides have been used in a range of industrial and commercial applications. Perfluorooctanesulfonamide (FOSA) is a major metabolite of N-alkylperfluorooctanesulfonamides and has a long half-life in animals and in the environment and is biotransformed to FOSA N-glucuronide. The objective of this study was to identify and characterize the human and experimental animal liver UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) that catalyze the N-glucuronidation of FOSA. The results showed that pooled human liver and rat liver microsomes had high N-glucuronidation activities. Expressed rat UGT1.1, UGT2B1, and UGT2B12 in HK293 cells catalyzed the N-glucuronidation of FOSA but at rates that were lower than those observed in rat liver microsomes. Of the 10 expressed human UGTs (1A1, 1A3, 1A4, 1A6, 1A9, 2B4, 2B7, 2B15, and 2B17) studied, only hUGT2B4 and hUGT2B7 catalyzed the N-glucuronidation of FOSA. The kinetics of N-glucuronidation of FOSA by rat liver microsomes and by hUGT2B4/7 was consistent with a single-enzyme Michaelis-Menten model, whereas human liver microsomes showed sigmoidal kinetics. These data show that rat liver UGT1.1, UGT2B1, and UGT2B12 catalyze the N-glucuronidation of FOSA, albeit at low rates, and that hUGT2B4 and hUGT2B7 catalyze the N-glucuronidation of FOSA.
17943662	Predictive value of animal models for human cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated metabolism: a comparative study in vitro.	One major challenge in drug development is defining of the optimal animal species to serve as a model of metabolism in man. The study compared the hepatic drug metabolism characteristics of humans and six widely used experimental animal species. Classical in vitro model enzyme assays with known human cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme selectivity were employed and optimized to target human hepatic CYP forms. The profile of CYP activities best resembling the human was seen in mouse followed by monkey, minipig, and dog liver microsomes, with rats displaying the most divergent. The widest interindividual variability was found in CYP3A-mediated midazolam -hydroxylase, and omeprazole sulphoxidase activities in human and monkey liver microsomes. These data demonstrate that if hepatic xenobiotic-metabolizing characteristics were to be the sole reason for the selection of animal species for toxicity studies, then the rat might not be the most appropriate model to mimic human CYP activity patterns.
20848091	Influence of gestational diabetes mellitus on the stereoselective kinetic disposition and metabolism of labetalol in hypertensive patients.	This study investigated the influence of gestational diabetes mellitus on the kinetic disposition and stereoselective metabolism of labetalol administered intravenously or orally. Thirty hypertensive women during the last trimester of pregnancy were divided into four groups: non-diabetic and diabetic women treated with intravenous or oral labetalol. The pharmacokinetics of labetalol was not stereoselective in diabetic or non-diabetic pregnant women receiving the drug intravenously. However, oral administration of labetalol resulted in lower values of the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) for the -blocker (RR) than for the other enantiomers in both diabetic and non-diabetic women. Gestational diabetes mellitus caused changes in the kinetic disposition of the labetalol stereoisomers when administered orally. The AUC values for the less potent adrenoceptor antagonist (SS) and for the -blocking (SR) isomers were higher in diabetic than in non-diabetic pregnant women. The approximately 100% higher AUC values obtained for the (SR) isomer in diabetic pregnant women treated with oral labetalol may be of clinical relevance in terms of the -blocking activity of this isomer.
21123164	Characterization of human liver enzymes involved in the biotransformation of boceprevir, a hepatitis C virus protease inhibitor.	Boceprevir (SCH 503034), a protease inhibitor, is under clinical development for the treatment of human hepatitis C virus infections. In human liver microsomes, formation of oxidative metabolites after incubations with [(14)C]boceprevir was catalyzed by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. In addition, the highest turnover was observed in recombinant CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. After a single radiolabeled dose to human, boceprevir was subjected to two distinct pathways, namely cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation and ketone reduction. Therefore, attempts were made to identify the enzymes responsible for the formation of carbonyl-reduced metabolites. Human liver S9 and cytosol converted  28 and  68% of boceprevir to M28, respectively, in the presence of an NADPH-generating system. Screening of boceprevir with recombinant human aldo-keto reductases (AKRs) revealed that AKR1C2 and AKR1C3 exhibited catalytic activity with respect to the formation of M+2 metabolites (M28 and M31). The formation of M28 was inhibited by 100 M flufenamic acid (80.3%), 200 M mefenamic acid (83.7%), and 100 M phenolphthalein (86.1%), known inhibitors of AKRs, suggesting its formation through carbonyl reduction pathway. Formation of M28 was also inhibited by 100 M diazepam (75.1%), 1 mM ibuprofen (70%), and 200 M diflunisal (89.4%). These data demonstrated that CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 are primarily responsible for the formation of oxidative metabolites and the formation of M28 and M31, the keto-reduced metabolites, are most likely mediated by AKR1C2 and AKR1C3. Because the biotransformation and clearance of boceprevir involves two different enzymatic pathways, boceprevir is less likely to be a victim of significant drug-drug interaction with concomitant medication affecting either of these pathways.
18549292	Protein adduct formation by glucuronide metabolites of permethrin.	Biomonitoring of exposure to the insecticide permethrin is usually performed by analysis of its urinary metabolites 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA) or cis/ trans-3-(2,2-dichlorovinyl)-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (Cl 2 CA). We are engaged in the development of a methodology to assess the cumulative internal dose of exposure to permethrin, which is based on the assumption that (reactive) glucuronide conjugates of the major permethrin metabolites 3-PBA and Cl 2 CA will form persistent (weeks to months) adducts to proteins, in analogy with the glucuronide conjugates of structurally related drugs. The 3-PBA and Cl 2 CA beta-glucuronide metabolites of permethrin have been successfully chemically and enzymatically synthesized. Their identities have been assessed by means of (1)H NMR spectroscopy and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The reactivity of these metabolites with various amino acids, peptides, and albumin in human plasma has been studied. Several distinct adducts could be identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. After pronase digestion of albumin isolated from exposed human plasma, various lysine derivatives resulted with favorable mass spectrometric and chromatographic properties. Covalent binding was quantified by using [(14)C]-3-PBA glucuronide; >1.5% of total radioactivity was bound to proteins. It is envisaged that the obtained results can form a firm basis for the development of a protein adduct-based methodology for biomonitoring exposure to permethrin. In view of the widespread use of permethrin, the toxicological relevance of protein binding by its metabolites will be addressed in more detail in future work.
1429999	Determination of the R-(-) and S-(+) enantiomers of the monohydroxylated metabolite of oxcarbazepine in human plasma by enantioselective high-performance liquid chromatography.	An enantioselective liquid chromatographic assay for the simultaneous determination of the S-(+) and R-(-) enantiomers of the monohydroxylated metabolite of oxcarbazepine in human plasma is described. The metabolite is the active principle. The method is based on the extraction of plasma with diethyl ether-dichloromethane (2:1, v/v), separation of the organic phase, evaporation of the solvent and dissolution of the residue in the mobile phase. The two enantiomers were resolved on a Chiralcel OD (250 mm x 4.6 mm I.D.) high-performance liquid chromatographic column. The separation was achieved by isocratic elution with n-hexane-2-propanol (77:23, v/v). The flow-rate of the mobile phase was 1.0 ml/min and the two enantiomers were detected by ultraviolet absorbance at 210 nm. The analytical method is suitable for the quantitative and simultaneous determination of the two enantiomers in plasma at concentrations down to 0.4 mumol/l after administration of oxcarbazepine.
15764407	Biotransformation of chlorpyrifos and diazinon by human liver microsomes and recombinant human cytochrome P450s (CYP).	The cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated biotransformation of the organophosphorothioate insecticides chlorpyrifos and diazinon was investigated. Rates of desulphuration to the active oxon metabolite (chlorpyrifos-oxon and diazinon-oxon) and dearylation to non-toxic hydrolysis products were determined in human liver microsome preparations from five individual donors and in recombinant CYP enzymes. Chlorpyrifos and diazinon underwent desulphuration in human liver microsome with mean Km = 30 and 45 microM and V(max) = 353 and 766 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively. Dearylation of these compounds by human liver microsome proceeded with Km = 12 and 28 microM and V(max) = 653 and 1186 pmol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively. The apparent intrinsic clearance (V(max)/Km) of dearylation was 4.5- and 2.5-fold greater than desulphuration for chlorpyrifos and diazinon, respectively. Recombinant human CYP2B6 possessed the highest desulphuration activity for chlorpyrifos, whereas CYP2C19 had the highest dearylation activity. In contrast, both desulphuration and dearylation of diazinon were catalysed at similar rates, in the rank order CYP2C19 > CYP1A2 > CYP2B6 > CYP3A4. Both organophosphorothioates were more readily detoxified (dearylation) than bioactivated (desulphuration) in all human liver microsome preparations. However, the role of individual CYP enzymes in these two biotransformation pathways varied according to the structure of the organophosphorothioate, which was reflected in different activation/detoxification ratios for chlorpyrifos and diazinon. Variability in activity of individual CYP enzymes may influence interindividual sensitivity to the toxic effects of chlorpyrifos and diazinon.
7788866	Non-specific inhibition of cytochrome P450 activities by chlorophyllin in human and rat liver microsomes.	Chlorophyllin, a copper/sodium salt of chlorophyll used in the treatment of geriatric patients, inhibits the mutagenicity of 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 3-amino-1-methyl-5H- pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2), aflatoxin B1 and benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P). Recent in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that a molecular complex is formed between IQ and chlorophyllin, suggesting that this complex formation might be responsible for the antigenotoxic effect of chlorophyllin observed. Cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes appear to be the major catalysts in the bioactivation of these carcinogens. We have investigated the in vitro effects of chlorophyllin on several P450 activities including ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation, benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylation, coumarin 7-hydroxylation, 7-ethoxycourmarin O-deethylation, B[a]P 3-hydroxylation, and chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation. Chlorophyllin non-specifically inhibited all of P450 activities observed. Spectrally detectable P450 was also destroyed in microsomes and purified P450 in a reconstituted system in the presence of chlorophyllin and an NADPH-generating system. These results suggest that the antigenotoxic effect of chlorophyllin might be due to inhibition of P450 enzymes involving bioactivation of carcinogens in addition to molecular complex formation between carcinogens and chlorophyllin. Comparison of the apparent Ki for P450 inactivation with previously estimated constants for chlorophyllin-IQ complexation suggest that P450 inhibition should be the dominant mechanism of inhibition.
11360039	Determination of exogenous melatonin and its 6-hydroxy metabolite in human plasma by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Melatonin has recently garnered interest as a possible treatment for sleep disorders, and this has created a desire for appropriate pharmacokinetic studies. No method has yet been published that can measure the concentrations of both melatonin and its main metabolite, 6-hydroxymelatonin, in plasma or serum. Therefore, a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS) method including enzymatic hydrolysis and one-step liquid-liquid extraction was developed for this purpose. The mean extraction recovery was 59% for melatonin and 42% for 6-hydroxymelatonin. The mean precision of the method as calculated from the interassay coefficient of variation of quality control samples at high and low concentrations was 18% for 6-hydroxymelatonin and 15% for melatonin. The inaccuracy was always less than 2%. The limit of detection was approximately 2 ng/mL for 6-hydroxymelatonin (signal/noise ratio = 4) and less than 2 ng/mL for melatonin (signal/noise ratio at 2 ng/mL = 10). The method was applied to the analysis of plasma from a healthy volunteer who had received a single oral dose of 25 mg melatonin.
17536746	Validation of meconin as a marker for illicit opiate use.	The detection of markers for illicit opiate misuse is important both in the management of substance misuse and in the postmortem identification of illicit opiate use. In addition to 6-monoacetylmorphine and acetyl codeine, other markers, such as papaverine, noscapine, and their metabolites, have been proposed as markers of illicit opiate use. Urine samples (362) from individuals attending substance misuse services and 26 postmortem cases were analyzed for meconin, a noscapine metabolite by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Three hundred of the substance misuse service samples and 14 of the postmortem samples had morphine present as the major opiate. Meconin was detected in 284 (94.7%) of these substance misuse samples and 11 (78%) of the postmortem samples. There was a specificity of 100% in both groups. In the 62 substance misuse cases where morphine was not the major opiate detected and four separate cases in which medicinal diamorphine was known to have been administered, meconin was not detected. The use of meconin as a useful adjunct in detecting illicit opiate use is recommended.
16246309	CPT1alpha over-expression increases long-chain fatty acid oxidation and reduces cell viability with incremental palmitic acid concentration in 293T cells.	To test the cellular response to an increased fatty acid oxidation, we generated a vector for an inducible expression of the rate-limiting enzyme carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1alpha (CPT1alpha). Human embryonic 293T kidney cells were transiently transfected and expression of the CPT1alpha transgene in the tet-on vector was activated with doxycycline. Fatty acid oxidation was measured by determining the conversion of supplemented, synthetic cis-10-heptadecenoic acid (C17:1n-7) to C15:ln-7. CPT1alpha over-expression increased mitochondrial long-chain fatty acid oxidation about 6-fold. Addition of palmitic acid (PA) decreased viability of CPT1alpha over-expressing cells in a concentration-dependent manner. Both, PA and CPT1alpha over-expression increased cell death. Interestingly, PA reduced total cell number only in cells over-expressing CPT1alpha, suggesting an effect on cell proliferation that requires PA translocation across the mitochondrial inner membrane. This inducible expression system should be well suited to study the roles of CPT1 and fatty acid oxidation in lipotoxicity and metabolism in vivo.
20012293	A phase I trial of PR-104, a nitrogen mustard prodrug activated by both hypoxia and aldo-keto reductase 1C3, in patients with solid tumors.	PR-104 is a "pre-prodrug" designed to be activated to a dinitrobenzamide nitrogen mustard cytotoxin by nitroreduction in hypoxic regions of tumors. This study was conducted to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of PR-104 in patients with advanced solid tumors. Patients with solid tumors refractory or not amenable to conventional treatment were evaluated in a dose-escalation trial of PR-104 administered as a 1-h intravenous (IV) infusion every 3 weeks. The plasma PK of PR-104 and its primary metabolite, PR-104A, were evaluated. Twenty-seven patients received a median of two cycles of PR-104 in doses ranging from 135 to 1,400 mg/m(2). The MTD of PR-104 as a single-dose infusion every 3 weeks was established as 1,100 mg/m(2). One of six patients treated at 1,100 mg/m(2) experienced DLT of grade 3 fatigue. Above the MTD, the DLTs at 1,400 mg/m(2) were febrile neutropenia and infection with normal absolute neutrophil count. No objective responses were observed, although reductions in tumor size were observed in patients treated at doses > or = 550 mg/m(2). The plasma PK of PR-104 demonstrated rapid conversion to PR-104A, with approximately dose-linear PK of both species. PR-104 was well tolerated at a dose of 1,100 mg/m(2) administered as an IV infusion every 3 weeks. The area under the PR-104A plasma concentration-time curve at this dose exceeded that required for activity in human tumor cell cultures and xenograft models. The recommended dose of PR-104 as a single agent for phase II trials is 1,100 mg/m(2) and further trials are underway.
12924926	Inhibition of human liver microsomal (S)-nicotine oxidation by (-)-menthol and analogues.	(-)-Menthol is a widely used flavoring ingredient present in mouthwash, foods, toothpaste, and cigarettes; yet, the pharmacological effects of menthol have not been widely studied. Mentholated cigarette smoking may increase the risk for lung cancer. Many African American smokers smoke mentholated cigarettes, and African Americans have a significantly higher incidence of lung cancer as compared with whites. There may be a relationship between the incidence of lung cancer and the type of cigarette smoked because the use of mentholated cigarettes by white smokers is significantly less and the incidence of lung cancer is less. The mechanism whereby (-)-menthol could increase the health risk of smoking is not known. The results of our in vitro studies herein show that (-)-menthol and synthetic congeners inhibit the microsomal oxidation of nicotine to cotinine and the P450 2A6-mediated 7-hydroxylation of coumarin. Replacement of the alcohol oxygen atom of menthol with other heteroatoms increased the potency of P450 2A6 inhibition. Thus, the K(i) value of (-)-menthol for inhibition of microsomal nicotine oxidation was 69.7 micro M but neomenthyl thiol possesses a K(i) value of 13.8 micro M. Menthylamine inhibited nicotine oxidation with a K(i) value of 49.8 micro M, but its hydroxylamine derivative gave an IC(50) value of 2.2 micro M. A series of 16 menthol derivatives and putative metabolites were procured or chemically synthesized and tested as inhibitors of P450 2A6. While highly potent inhibition of P450 2A6 was not observed for the menthol analogues examined, it is nevertheless possible that smoking mentholated cigarettes leads to inhibition of nicotine metabolism and allows the smoker to achieve a certain elevated dose of nicotine each day. This may be another example of self-medication to obtain the desired effect of nicotine.
12433798	Major phase I biotransformation pathways of Trichostatin a in rat hepatocytes and in rat and human liver microsomes.	Phase I biotransformation of Trichostatin A (TSA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor with promising antifibrotic and antitumoral properties, was investigated in rat and human liver microsomes and in suspensions of rat hepatocytes. TSA (50 micro M) was readily and completely metabolized by rat hepatocytes in suspension (2 x 10(6) cells/ml), whereafter its phase I metabolites were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and detected with simultaneous UV and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). ESI tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) was used to identify the metabolites. Two major phase I biotransformation pathways in rat hepatocytes were shown to be N-demethylation and reduction of the hydroxamic acid function to its corresponding amide. N-monodemethylated TSA and TSA amide were preferentially formed during the first 20 min of exposure, and N-monodemethylated TSA amide appeared as the main metabolite after a 30 min incubation period. At this time, virtually all TSA had been metabolized. Trichostatic acid, N-monodemethylated Trichostatic acid, and N-didemethylated TSA were identified as minor metabolites. Longer incubation led to the formation of N-didemethylated TSA amide as the main metabolite. Lower concentrations of TSA (5 and 25 micro M) formed relatively higher amounts of N-demethylated, nonreduced metabolites. Incubations of TSA with rat and human microsomal suspensions, however, led to an incomplete biotransformation with the formation of two major metabolites, N-mono- and N-didemethylated TSA. Traces of Trichostatic acid, TSA amide, N-mono- and N-didemethylated TSA amide were also detected. This study is the first to show that TSA undergoes intensive phase I biotransformation in rat hepatocytes. This has important consequences for its potential development as a drug, since rapid biotransformation resulting in a short exposure to the pharmacologically active parent compound, and a complex mixture of metabolites is usually not desired. Further biotransformation studies of TSA and structural analogs with antitumoral and antifibrotic properties need to be performed in cultured intact hepatocytes, in particular since one of the major phase I biotransformation pathways is catalyzed by nonmicrosomal enzymes.
29024	Determination of the metabolites of bezitramide in urine. II. The basic metabolite.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of low levels (less than 1 microgram/ml) of the basic metabolite of bezitramide, 1-(4-piperidinyl)-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazol-2-one, in human urine is described. Special attention is given to the separation from the basic metabolite of droperidol, a drug frequently co-administered with bezitramide.
18214896	Interaction of bisphenol A with human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6 enzyme.	The effects of bisphenol A (BPA) on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6 (UGT1A6) activities in microsomes from human livers and yeast cells expressing human UGT1A6 (humUGT1A6) were investigated. Serotonin (5-HT) and 4-methylumbelliferone (4-MU) were used as the substrates for UGT1A6. BPA dose-dependently inhibited 5-HT and 4-MU glucuronidation activities in both enzyme sources. The IC(50) values of BPA for 5-HT and 4-MU glucuronidation activities were 156 and 163 microM for liver microsomes, and 84.6 and 80.3 microM for yeast cell microsomes expressing humUGT1A6, respectively. The inhibitory pattern of BPA for 5-HT and 4-MU glucuronidation activities in human liver microsomes exhibited a mixture of competitive and noncompetitive components, with K(i) values of 84.9 and 72.3 microM, respectively. In yeast cell microsomes expressing humUGT1A6, 5-HT glucuronidation activities were noncompetitively inhibited by BPA (K(i) value, 65.5 microM), whereas the inhibition of 4-MU glucuronidation activities by BPA exhibited the mixed type (K(i) value, 42.5 microM). These results suggest that BPA interacts with human UGT1A6 enzyme, and that the interaction may contribute to the toxicity, such as hormone disruption and reproductive effects, of BPA.
14599475	Functionality of cultured human hepatocytes from elective samples, cadaveric grafts and hepatectomies.	The major possible sources of human liver for hepatocyte isolation are elective liver biopsies, cadaveric liver grafts and therapeutic liver resections. The suitability in terms of metabolic-competent hepatocyte cultures and risk/benefit of these resources has been comparatively studied. To this end, viability of isolated hepatocytes, yield of isolation procedure, hepatocyte survival during culture and CYP activities were the parameters analysed. The best results were found in hepatocytes prepared from elective biopsies, whereas a marked reduction in viability and functional competence was seen in hepatocytes from hepatectomy samples. Metabolic differences were observed in total CYP oxidative metabolism (7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation, total testosterone hydroxylation), as well as in CYP3A4, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 activities (testosterone oxidations at 6beta-, 16beta- and 17-positions, respectively). Vascular control during the hepatectomy procedure influenced hepatocyte functionality: higher CYP activities were found in hepatocytes isolated from samples obtained under non-ischemic conditions or continuous vascular clamping than in those obtained under intermittent vascular clamping. In addition to cellular functionality, other criteria such as sample availability or ethical aspects should be considered. Elective biopsies have low, but not absent, surgical risk. However, the better functionality and the higher accessibility of elective liver samples in comparison to the other groups suggest this source of liver tissue as the most appropriate for cell harvesting purposes.
12125001	Validated assay for quantification of oxcarbazepine and its active dihydro metabolite 10-hydroxycarbazepine in plasma by atmospheric pressure chemical ionization liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry.	Oxcarbazepine (OX), a new antiepileptic, may lead to unwanted side-effects or even life-threatening intoxications after overdose. Therefore, a validated liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric (LC/MS) assay was developed for the quantification of OX and its pharmacologically active dihydro metabolite (dihydrooxcarbazepine, DOX, often named 10-hydroxycarbazepine). OX and DOX were extracted from plasma by the authors' standard liquid/liquid extraction and were separated on a Merck LiChroCART column with Superspher 60 RP Select B as the stationary phase. Gradient elution was performed using aqueous ammonium formate and acetonitrile. The compounds were quantified in the selected-ion monitoring mode using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization electrospray LC/MS. The assay was fully validated. It was found to be selective. The calibration curves were linear from 0.1 to 50 mg l(-1) for OX and DOX. Limits of quantification were 0.1 mg l(-1) for OX and DOX. The absolute recoveries were between 60 and 86%. The accuracy and precision data were within the required limits. The analytes in frozen plasma samples were stable for at least 1 month. The method was successfully applied to several authentic plasma samples from patients treated or intoxicated with OX. The measured therapeutic plasma levels ranged from 1 to 2 mg l(-1) for OX and from 10 to 40 mg l(-1) for DOX. The validated LC/MS assay proved to be appropriate for quantification of OX and DOX in plasma for clinical toxicology and therapeutic drug monitoring purposes. The assay is part of a general analysis procedure for the isolation, separation and quantification of various drugs and for their full-scan screening and identification.
17053895	The pharmacokinetics of artemether and lumefantrine in pregnant women with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.	To determine the pharmacokinetic properties of artemether and lumefantrine (AL) in pregnant women with recrudescent uncomplicated multi-drug resistant falciparum malaria. Pregnant women who had recurrence of parasitaemia following 7 days supervised quinine treatment were treated with AL. Serial blood samples were taken over a 7-day period, and pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated. For lumefantrine, these data were compared in a population pharmacokinetic model with data from non-pregnant, mainly male adults with acute malaria. The pregnant women (five in the second trimester and eight in the third trimester) had lower concentrations of artemether, dihydroartemisinin and lumefantrine, and the elimination of lumefantrine in pregnant women was more rapid than reported previously in non-pregnant adults. Pregnancy is associated with reduced plasma concentrations of both artemether and lumefantrine. This is likely to be of therapeutic significance as plasma concentrations of lumefantrine, after elimination of artemether, are an important determinant of cure. Further studies are needed to determine the optimum dose regimen of artemether-lumefantrine in pregnancy.
16628138	The in vivo glucuronidation of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine determined by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry.	The opioid partial agonist medication, buprenorphine (BUP), and its primary metabolite, norbuprenorphine (NBUP), are extensively glucuronidated. Sensitive analytical methods that include determination of buprenorphine-3-glucuronide (BUPG) and norbuprenorphine-3-glucuronide (NBUPG) are needed to more fully understand the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine. A method has now been developed that uses solid-phase extraction followed by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. BUP-d4, NBUP-d3, and morphine-3-glucuronide-d3 were used as internal standards. The lower limit of quantitation was 0.1 and 0.5 ng/mL for each of the analytes in 1-mL of human plasma and urine, respectively, except for NBUP in urine in which it was 2.5 ng/mL. The analytes were stable under the following conditions: plasma and urine at room temperature, up to 20 hours; plasma and urine at -20 degrees C for 119 and 85 days, respectively; plasma freeze-thaw, up to 3 cycles; processed sample, up to 96 hours at -20 degrees C and up to 48 hours on the autosampler; stock solutions at room temperature and at -20 degrees C, up to 6 hours and 128 days, respectively. In plasma collected from 5 subjects on maintenance daily sublingual doses of 16 mg BUP and 4 mg naloxone, respective 0- to 24-hour areas under the curve were 32, 88, 26, and 316 ng/mL x h for BUP, NBUP, BUPG, and NBUPG. In urine samples respective percent of daily dose excreted in the 24-hour urine were 0.014%, 1.89%, 1.01%, and 7.76%. This method allowed us to determine that NBUPG is a major metabolite present in plasma and urine of BUP. Because urinary elimination is limited ( approximately 11% of daily dose), the role of NBUPG in total clearance of buprenorphine is not yet known.
19000552	Effect of CYP2D6 polymorphism on pharmacokinetics of a novel ACAT inhibitor, pactimibe and its unique metabolite, R-125528.	Pactimibe is a novel ACAT inhibitor. The pharmacokinetics of pactimibe and its pharmacologically inactive plasma metabolite, R-125528, of which the main clearance pathway is CYP2D6, was affected by coadministration of quinidine. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of CYP2D6 polymorphism on pharmacokinetics of pactimibe and R-125528. In addition, exposure was examined after multiple doses of pactimibe sulfate in CYP2D6 poor metabolizer (PMs). 24 healthy male Caucasian volunteers, genotyped as extensive, intermediate, and poor metabolizers, were received single dose of 25 mg pactimibe. In a multiple-dose study, six CYP2D6 PMs received 100 mg pactimibe for 21 days and exposure of pactimibe and R-125528 was examined. In contrast to the mild 1.7-fold increase in AUC0-inf of pactimibe, a marked 3.1-fold increase in AUC0-tz of R-125528 was observed in CYP2D6 PMs. After multiple doses of 100 mg pactimibe to CYP2D6 PMs, the accumulation ratio of R-125528 reached 8.8-fold, however, the exposure of R-125528 in CYP2D6 PMs was covered by the exposure in additional metabolite safety testing. Although CYP2D6 polymorphism greatly affected the pharmacokinetics of R-125528 rather than pactimibe, the exposure in CYP2D6 PMs after a multiple dose of 100 mg pactimibe sulfate was covered by additional non-clinical metabolite safety testing. The finding is clinically informative with respect to the safety testing of drug metabolite present at disproportionately high levels in a special population with specific genetic back ground.
8914854	Identification of CYP4A11 as the major lauric acid omega-hydroxylase in human liver microsomes.	Human liver microsomes are capable of oxidizing lauric acid (laurate), a model medium-chain fatty acid, at both the omega- and omega-1 positions to form 12- and 11-hydroxylaurate, respectively. These laurate hydroxylation reactions are apparently catalyzed by distinct P450 enzymes. While the P450 responsible for microsomal laurate omega-1 hydroxylation in human liver has been identified as CYP2E1, the enzyme catalyzing omega-hydroxylation remains poorly defined. To that end, we employed conventional purification and immunochemical techniques to characterize the major hepatic laurate omega-hydroxylase in humans. Western blotting with rat CYP4A1 antibodies was used to monitor a cross-reactive P450 protein (M(r) = 52 kDa) during its isolation from human liver microsomes. The purified enzyme (7.4 nmol P450/mg protein) had an NH2-terminal amino acid sequence identical to that predicted from the human CYP4A11 cDNA over the first 20 residues found. Upon reconstitution with P450 reductase and cytochrome b5, CYP4A11 proved to be a potent laurate omega-hydroxylase, exhibiting a turnover rate of 45.7 nmol 12-hydroxylaurate formed/min/nmol P450 (12-fold greater than intact microsomes), while catalyzing the omega-1 hydroxylation reaction at much lower rates (5.4 nmol 11-hydroxylaurate formed/min/nmol P450). Analysis of the laurate omega-hydroxylation reaction in human liver microsomes revealed kinetic parameters (a lone Km of 48.9 microM with a VMAX of 3.72 nmol 12-hydroxylaurate formed/min/nmol P450) consistent with catalysis by CYP4A11. In fact, incubation of human liver microsomes with antibodies raised to CYP4A11 resulted in nearly 85% inhibition of laurate omega-hydroxylase activity while omega-1 hydroxylase activity remained unaffected. Furthermore, a strong correlation (r = 0.89; P < 0.001) was found between immunochemically determined CYP4A11 content and laurate omega-hydroxylase activity in liver samples from 11 different subjects. From the foregoing, it appears that CYP4A11 is the principle laurate omega-hydroxylating enzyme expressed in human liver.
22154986	Cigarette smoke induces p-benzoquinone-albumin adduct in blood serum: Implications on structure and ligand binding properties.	Earlier we had reported that irrespective of the source cigarette smoke (CS) contains substantial amounts of p-benzosemiquinone, which is readily converted to p-benzoquinone (p-BQ) by disproportionation and oxidation by transition metal containing proteins. Here we show that after CS-exposure, p-BQ-protein adducts are formed in the lungs as well as serum albumin of guinea pigs. We also show that serum of human smokers contains p-BQ-albumin adduct. It is known that human serum albumin (HSA) plays a very important role in binding and transport of a variety of ligands, including fatty acids and drugs. We show in vitro that p-BQ forms covalent adducts with free amino groups of all twenty amino acids as well as -amino groups of lysine residues of HSA in a concentration dependent manner. When HSA is incubated with p-BQ in the molar ratio of 1:1, the number of p-BQ incorporated is 1. At the molar ratio of 1:60, the number of p-BQ incorporated is 40. The formation of HSA-p-BQ adduct has been demonstrated by absorption spectroscopy, MALDI-MS and MALDI-TOF-TOF-MS analyses. Upon complexation with p-BQ, the secondary structure and conformation of HSA are altered, as evidenced by steady state and time-resolved fluorescence, circular dichroism, 8-anilino-1-napthalenesulfonic acid binding and differential scanning calorimetry. Alteration of the structure and conformation of HSA results in impairment of its ligand binding properties with respect to myristic acid, quercitin and paracetamol. This might be one of the reasons why transport and distribution of lipids and drugs are impaired in smokers.
16763825	Enantioselective pharmacokinetics of tramadol in CYP2D6 extensive and poor metabolizers.	To describe in detail the intravenous, single oral and multiple oral dose enantioselective pharmacokinetics of tramadol in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (EMs) and poor metabolizers (PMs). Eight EMs and eight PMs conducted three phases as an open-label cross-over trial with different formulations; 150 mg single oral tramadol hydrochloride, 50 mg single oral tramadol hydrochloride every 8 h for 48 h (steady state), 100 mg intravenous tramadol hydrochloride. Urine and plasma concentrations of (+/-)-tramadol and (+/-)-M1 were determined for 48 h after administration. In all three phases, there were significant differences between EMs and PMs in AUC and t(1/2) of (+)-tramadol (P< or =0.0015), (-)-tramadol (P< or =0.0062), (+)-M1 (P< or =0.0198) and (-)-M1 (P< or =0.0370), and significant differences in C(max) of (+)-M1 (P<0.0001) and (-)-M1 (P< or =0.0010). In Phase A and C, significant differences in t(max) were seen for (+)-M1 (P< or =0.0200). There were no statistical differences between the absolute bioavailability of tramadol in EMs and PMs. The urinary recoveries of (+)-tramadol, (-)-tramadol, (+)-M1 and (-)-M1 were statistically significantly different in EMs and PMs (P<0.05). Median antimodes of the urinary metabolic ratios of (+)-tramadol / (+)-M1 and (-)-M1 were 5.0 and 1.5, respectively, hereby clearly separating EMs and PMs in all three phases. The impact of CYP2D6 phenotype on tramadol pharmacokinetics was similar after single oral, multiple oral and intravenous administration displaying significant pharmacokinetic differences between EMs and PMs of (+)-tramadol, (-)-tramadol, -(+)-M1 and (-)-M1. The O-demethylation of tramadol was catalysed stereospecific by CYP2D6 in the way that very little (+)-M1 was produced in PMs.
15902980	Urinary excretion of alpha-hydroxytriazolam following a single dose of halcion.	As an approved medicinal product and reportedly an abused substance that have been associated with death and "considered to be a factor...of impaired driving, sexual assault, and other violent crimes", triazolam is controlled at the same level (Level III) as flunitrazepam in Taiwan. Alleged misuses of this substance have been associated with case specimens submitted to this laboratory. A sample preparation (with and without enzymatic hydrolysis) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry protocols were evaluated and applied to the analysis of free and total alpha-hydroxytriazolam (the main metabolite of triazolam) in urine. Ions designated for TMS-derivatized alpha-hydroxytriazolam and alpha-hydroxytriazolam-d4 are m/z 415, 417, and 430 and 419, 421, and 434, respectively. The overall protocol achieved the following results when applied to the analysis of 2-mL drug-free urine specimens fortified with 10-200 ng/mL alpha-hydroxytriazolam: recovery, 95%; interday and intraday precision ranges, 1.50-3.52% and 0.93-4.71%, respectively; linearity, r2 > 0.99; and limits of detection and quantitation, 0.05 and 0.1 ng/mL, respectively. This protocol was applied to the analysis of case specimens and urine samples collected from two patients (A and B) taking one oral dose of Halcion (0.25 mg triazolam). Excretion profiles of free and total alpha-hydroxytriazolam show that free alpha-hydroxytriazolam is detectable, but at very low levels (< 5 ng/mL). Peak excretion of total alpha-hydroxytriazolam occurs at approximately 5-10 h following the drug intake. Total alpha-hydroxytriazolam is excreted at detectable levels approximately 2-35 h following an oral dose of 0.25 mg triazolam. Total free and conjugated alpha-hydroxytriazolam excreted by A and B are 0.61% and 31.6%; and 0.36% and 57.2% of the dose, respectively.
16190932	A pilot study on brain-to-plasma partition of 10,11-dyhydro-10-hydroxy-5H-dibenzo(b,f)azepine-5-carboxamide and MDR1 brain expression in epilepsy patients not responding to oxcarbazepine.	We measured the brain-to-plasma partition of 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxy-5H-dibenzo(b,f)azepine-5-carboxamide (10-OHCBZ) in epilepsy patients undergoing surgery to alleviate drug-resistant seizures and administered with different oral doses of oxcarbazepine (OXC). We addressed the possible contribution of the multidrug transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp or MDR1) in determining 10-OHCBZ brain levels by measuring whether this active metabolite is a substrate of P-gp and the relation between the level of expression of MDR1 and the drug concentration in the same brain tissue specimens. Steady-state plasma and brain concentrations (C(ss)) of 10-OHCBZ were determined intraoperatively in 11 patients by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection. The level of expression of MDR1 mRNA was measured in surgically resected brain tissue by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The ability of 10-OHCBZ to act as substate of P-gp was evaluated by measuring its uptake in cell lines expressing different levels of P-gp, in the presence or absence of a selective P-gp inhibitor. OXC was converted to 10-OHCBZ and to Di-OHCBZ, the two main metabolites measured in plasma. The brain concentrations of the active metabolite 10-OHCBZ did not reflect plasma C(ss). A significant inverse linear correlation was found between 10-OHCBZ brain-to-plasma concentration ratio and the level of brain expression of MDR1 mRNA. In vitro uptake studies demonstrated lower intracellular 10-OHCBZ levels in cells with higher P-gp expression. Intracellular drug concentration was increased by XR9576, a specific P-gp blocker. Pharmacologic failure of OXC in pharmacoresistant epilepsy is unlikely to be due to alterations in drug metabolism. 10-OHCBZ does not appear to cross the blood-brain barrier by simple diffusion, and it acts as a substrate of P-gp. The level of expression of MDR1 is inversely correlated with 10-OHCBZ concentration in the epileptic tissue. P-gp may play a role in the pharmacoresistance to OXC by determining the attainment of insufficient concentrations of its active metabolite at neuronal targets.
20707345	Profiles of phytoestrogens in human urine from several Asian countries.	Intake of a diet rich in phytoestrogens has been associated with a decreased risk for hormone-dependent cancers in humans. Biomonitoring of phytoestrogens in human urine has been used to assess the intake of phytoestrogens. Although studies have reported phytoestrogen levels in urine specimens from the United States and Japan, little is known of human intake of phytoestrogens in other Asian countries. In this study we determined the concentrations of seven phytoestrogens, namely, enterolactone, enterodiol, daidzein, equol, O-desmethylangolensin (O-DMA), genistein, and coumestrol, in 199 human urine samples from three Asian countries, Vietnam (Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh), Cambodia (Phnom Penh), and India (Chennai and Kolkata), using a simple, sensitive, and reliable liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) method. The residue levels of phytoestrogens in urine samples from the three Asian countries were compared with the concentrations in 26 urine samples from Japan (Ehime) and 16 urine samples from the United States (Albany), analyzed in this study. Among the phytoestrogens analyzed, isoflavones such as daidzein and genistein were predominant in urine samples from Vietnam; samples from Cambodia and India contained higher concentrations of enterolactone than isoflavones. Urinary concentrations of isoflavones in samples from Hanoi, Vietnam, were notably higher than the concentrations in samples from Cambodia, India, and the United States and similar to the concentrations in samples from Japan. The lowest concentrations of daidzein and the highest concentrations of enterolactone were found in urine samples from India. Concentrations of equol and O-DMA, which are microbial transformation products of daidzein (produced by gut microflora), were notably high in urine samples from Hanoi, Vietnam. The ratios of the concentration of equol or O-DMA to that of daidzein were significantly higher in samples from Hanoi than from Japan, indicating high biotransformation efficiency of daidzein by the population in Hanoi. High concentrations of equol, in addition to isoflavones, in urine have been linked to reduced breast cancer risk in previous studies, and, thus, the Vietnamese population may have potential protective effect against breast cancer. This study suggests that the dietary intake and profiles of phytoestrogens vary considerably, even among Asian countries.
16176119	Pharmacokinetic drug interactions of gefitinib with rifampicin, itraconazole and metoprolol.	Gefitinib (IRESSA, ZD1839), an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has been approved in several countries for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Preclinical studies were conducted to determine the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of gefitinib and to evaluate the potential of gefitinib to cause drug interactions through inhibition of CYP isoenzymes. Based on these findings, three clinical studies were carried out to investigate pharmacokinetic drug interactions in vivo with gefitinib. In preclinical studies radiolabelled gefitinib was incubated with: (i) hepatic microsomal protein in the presence of selective CYP inhibitors; and (ii) expressed CYP enzymes. Human hepatic microsomal protein was incubated with selective CYP substrates in the presence of gefitinib. Clinical studies were all phase I, open-label, single-centre studies; two had a randomised, two-way crossover design and the third was nonrandomised. The first and second studies investigated the pharmacokinetics of gefitinib in the presence of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (rifampicin [rifampin]) or inhibitor (itraconazole) in healthy male volunteers. The third study investigated the effects that gefitinib had on the pharmacokinetics of metoprolol, a CYP2D6 substrate, in patients with solid tumours. The results of preclinical studies demonstrated that CYP3A4 is involved in the metabolism of gefitinib and that gefitinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 activity. In clinical studies when gefitinib was administered in the presence of rifampicin, geometric mean (gmean) maximum concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) were reduced by 65% and 83%, respectively; these changes were statistically significant. When gefitinib was administered in the presence of itraconazole, gmean AUC increased by 78% and 61% at gefitinib doses of 250 and 500 mg, respectively; these changes also being statistically significant. Coadministration of metoprolol with gefitinib resulted in a 35% increase in the metoprolol area under plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to the time of the last quantifiable concentration; this change was not statistically significant. There was no apparent change in the safety profile of gefitinib as a result of coadministration with other agents. Although CYP3A4 inducers may reduce exposure to gefitinib, further work is required to define any resultant effect on the efficacy of gefitinib. Exposure to gefitinib is increased by coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors, but since gefitinib is known to have a good tolerability profile, a dosage reduction is not recommended. Gefitinib is unlikely to exert a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of drugs that are dependent on CYP2D6-mediated metabolism for their clearance, but the potential to increase plasma concentrations should be considered if gefitinib is coadministered with CYP2D6 substrates that have a narrow therapeutic index or are individually dose titrated.
9111224	Metabolism of carcinogenic heterocyclic and aromatic amines by recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes.	The N-hydroxylation of carcinogenic arylamines represents an initial step in their metabolic activation. Animal studies have shown that this reaction is catalyzed by the cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes P450 1A1 and P450 1A2. In this study, utilizing enzymes expressed in Escherichia coli (and purified) or in human B-lymphoblastoid cells, the catalytic activities of recombinant human P450 1A1, P450 1A2, and P450 3A4 for N-hydroxylation of several carcinogenic arylamines were determined. P450 1A2 from both expression systems catalyzed the N-hydroxylation of 4-aminobiphenyl and the heterocyclic amines, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f/quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). Rates were similar, with values of 1.1-7.8 nmol/min/nmol P450. In contrast, P450 1A1 catalyzed N-hydroxylation of only PhIP, and no activity was observed with P450 3A4. Further kinetic analysis with purified P450 1A2 showed similar Km and Vmax values for N-hydroxylation of the arylamines. Furafylline and fluvoxamine, inhibitors of P450 1A2 activity in human liver microsomes, were found to be inhibitory of the recombinant P450 1A2 N-hydroxylation activity. Results from this study are supportive of a major role for human P450 1A2 in the metabolic activation of arylamines.
7923596	Human liver glucuronidation of benzidine.	Although glucuronidation is considered an important pathway in aromatic amine-induced bladder cancer, benzidine glucuronidation has not been assessed in humans. Glucuronidation of benzidine was assessed with human liver microsomes and slices. Emulgen 911-treated microsomes exhibited a Km for benzidine of 0.8 +/- 0.06 mM and a Vmax of 4.2 +/- 0.7 nmol/mg protein/min. A variety of agents were tested for their ability to inhibit benzidine N-glucuronide formation. At 0.25 mM, estriol, 17-epiestriol, bilirubin, hyodeoxycholic acid and cyproheptadine were good inhibitors (< 50% of control). Dose-dependent inhibition studies with estriol, testosterone and 4-aminobiphenyl demonstrated that each agent reached a plateau as its concentration was increased. When these agents were combined at maximal inhibitory concentrations, additive inhibition was observed. These results suggest that more than one UDP-glucuronosyltransferase metabolizes benzidine. The cDNA clones pUDPGTh-1 and -2 encode transferases which metabolize hyodeoxycholic acid and estrogen derivatives, but neither transferase catalyzed benzidine glucuronidation. Slices were used to assess metabolism by intact tissue and converted [3H]benzidine (0.09 mM) to N-acetyl-benzidine. N-Glucuronides of both benzidine and N-acetylbenzidine were observed and represented 14-37% of the total recovered radioactivity. The amount of N-acetylbenzidine N'-glucuronide observed was proportional to the amount of N-acetylbenzidine produced. Thus, N-glucuronidation appears to represent a major pathway for metabolism of benzidine in humans. The extent of N-acetylation affects the proportion of benzidine and N-acetylbenzidine glucuronidated by human liver slices.
12477487	On the inhibitory action of 29 drugs having side effect gynecomastia on estrogen production.	To examine the influence on aromatase and sulfatase pathways in estrogen pool by drugs reported to cause gynecomastia as the side effect, 29 ethical drugs were incubated with human placental microsomes as an enzyme source. The percent inhibition of drugs on aromatase pathway was obtained by sum of the velocity constants of two products, estrone (E1) and estradiol (E2) from testosterone (T) as the substrate, and that on sulfatase pathway was obtained as the velocity constant of production of E1 from estrone sulfate (E1S). Although several drugs including ketoconazole showed a significant inhibition effect on aromatase pathway at their non-clinical over-dose concentration (100 microM), no influence on the inhibition was observed in any drugs at their approximately therapeutic concentration (1 microM). However, several drugs including spironolactone gave the product ratio (E2/E1) having higher value than that of the control, the result means spironolactone inhibits the conversion of E2 to E1. No inhibitory effect of the drugs tested on estrogen production from E1S (sulfatase pathway) was confirmed. The results suggest the possibility that the tested drugs known to cause gynecomastia have no inhibitory effect essentially on aromatase and sulfatase pathways.
16965601	Pharmacogenetic impact of polymorphisms in the coding region of the UGT1A1 gene on SN-38 glucuronidation in Japanese patients with cancer.	Pharmacogenetic testing for UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1*28, a promoter variant of the UGT1A1 gene, is now carried out clinically to estimate the risk of irinotecan-associated toxicity. We studied the clinical significance of UGT1A1*6 and UGT1A1*27, two variants in exon 1 of the UGT1A1 gene that are found mainly in Asians. The study group comprised 46 Japanese patients who received various regimens of chemotherapy including irinotecan at doses from 50 to 180 mg/m(2). Pharmacogenetic relationships were explored between the UGT1A1 genotype and the ratio of the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of the active metabolite of irinotecan (SN-38) to that of SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G), used as a surrogate for UGT1A1 activity (AUC(SN-38)/AUC(SN-38G)). No patient was homozygous for UGT1A1*28, and none had UGT1A1*27. Two were heterozygous for UGT1A1*28. Two were homozygous and 15 heterozygous for UGT1A1*6, all of whom were wild type with respect to UGT1A1*28. Two patients were simultaneously heterozygous for UGT1A1*28 and UGT1A1*6, present on different chromosomes. The other 25 patients had none of the variants studied. The two patients simultaneously heterozygous for UGT1A1*28 and UGT1A1*6 and the two patients homozygous for UGT1A1*6 had significantly higher AUC(SN-38)/AUC(SN-38G) ratios than the others (P = 0.0039). Concurrence of UGT1A1*28 and UGT1A1*6, even when heterozygous, altered the disposition of irinotecan remarkably, potentially increasing susceptibility to toxicity. Patients homozygous for UGT1A1*6 should also be carefully monitored. UGT1A1 polymorphisms in the coding region of the UGT1A1 gene should be genotyped in addition to testing for UGT1A1*28 to more accurately predict irinotecan-related toxicity, at least in Asian patients.
15801543	In vitro metabolism of gefitinib in human liver microsomes.	The in vitro metabolism of gefitinib was investigated by incubating [14C]-gefitinib, as well as M537194, M387783 and M523595 (the main metabolites of gefitinib observed in man), at a concentration of 100 microM with human liver microsomes (4 mg ml(-1)) for 120 min. These relatively high substrate and microsomal protein concentrations were used in an effort to generate sufficient quantities of metabolites for identification. HPLC with ultraviolet light, radiochemical and mass spectral analysis, together with the availability of authentic standards, enabled quantification and structural identification of a large number of metabolites. Although 16 metabolites were identified, metabolism was restricted to three regions of the molecule. The major pathway involved morpholine ring-opening and step-wise removal of the morpholine ring and propoxy side chain. O-demethylation of the quinazoline methoxy group was a quantitatively less important pathway, in contrast to the clinical situation, where O-desmethyl gefitinib (M523595) is the predominant plasma metabolite. The third metabolic route, oxidative defluorination, was only a minor route of metabolism. Some metabolites were formed by a combination of these processes, but no metabolism was observed in other parts of the molecule. Incubation of gefitinib produced ten identified metabolites, but the use of the three main in vivo metabolites as additional substrates enabled a more comprehensive metabolic pathway to be constructed and this has been valuable in supporting the more limited data available from the human in vivo study.
1818060	Simultaneous determination of haloperidol and its metabolite, reduced haloperidol, in plasma, blood, urine and tissue homogenates by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed for the simultaneous determination of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol in human plasma, urine and rat tissue homogenates using bromperidol as an internal standard. The method involved extraction followed by injection of 50-80 microliters of the aqueous layer onto a C18 reversed-phase column. The mobile phase was 0.5 M phosphate buffer-acetonitrile-methanol (58:31:11, v/v/v) and the flow-rate was 0.6 ml/min. The column effluent was monitored by ultraviolet detection at 214 nm. The retention times for reduced haloperidol, haloperidol and bromperidol were 5.4, 7.2 and 8.4 min, respectively. The detection limits for haloperidol and reduced haloperidol in human plasma were both 0.5 ng/ml, and the corresponding values in human urine were both 5 ng/ml. The coefficients of variation of the assay were generally low (below 10.7%) for plasma, urine, blood and tissue homogenates. No interferences from endogenous substances or any drug tested were found.
21178301	Inhibitory effects of Phyllanthus amarus and its major lignans on human microsomal cytochrome P450 activities: evidence for CYP3A4 mechanism-based inhibition.	Phyllanthus amarus has long been used as a herbal medicine in several countries. Phytochemicals in herbal medicine may interact with cytochromes P450 (CYP) and thus raise the potential of herb-drug interactions; therefore, the inhibitory effects of P. amarus and its major phytochemicals phyllanthin and hypophyllanthin on CYP isoforms were determined using human liver microsomes and selective substrates. Both ethanolic and aqueous extracts of P. amarus inhibited CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to known CYP3A inhibitors, the IC(50) values of the ethanolic and aqueous extracts on testosterone 6-hydroxylation were higher than that of ketoconazole but were lower than those of erythromycin and clarithromycin. Both extracts were weak inhibitors of CYP1A2, CYP2D6 and CYP2E1. In addition, phyllanthin and hypophyllanthin were potent mechanism-based inhibitors of CYP3A4 with K(I) values of 1.75  1.20 M and 2.24  1.84 M and k(inact) values of 0.18  0.05 min(-1) and 0.15  0.06 min(-1), respectively. The k(inact)/K(I) ratios of these lignans were higher than those reported for some therapeutic drugs that act as mechanism-based inhibitors of CYP3A4. These results suggest that co-administration of P. amarus with drugs that are metabolized by CYP3A4 may potentially result in herb-drug interactions.
15734170	A sensitive liquid chromatographic method for the spectrophotometric determination of urinary trans,trans-muconic acid.	Benzene is a human carcinogen and its metabolite, urinary trans,trans-muconic acid (ttMA), is a biomarker for risk assessment. However, most of the existing methods were not sensitive enough for monitoring of low level exposure. This paper describes a HPLC-UV method for ttMA determination with enhanced selectivity and sensitivity. A 30 mg OasisMAX cartridge was used to clean-up 50 microl of urine sample and gradient elution was performed on a Zorbax SB-C(18) column (30 degrees C). ttMA was detected at wavelength 263 nm using a UV diode array detector (DAD). The two mobile phases used were (A) 150 mM ortho-phosphoric acid containing of 9% (v/v) methanol; and (B) 125 mM ortho-phosphoric acid containing 30% (v/v) acetonitrile. The method was validated with 61 urine samples collected from non-occupationally benzene exposed individuals and 14 quality control specimens from an international quality assessment scheme. The urinary ttMA concentrations (mean+/-S.D.microg/g creatinine) were 90+/-34 for smokers (n=26), 49+/-39 for non-smokers (n=21) and 23+/-18 for non-smoking hospital staff (n=14). A correlation coefficient, r=0.99 was found with 14 external quality specimens for ttMA ranged from 0.4 to 6.8 mg/l. The recovery and reproducibility were generally over 90% and the detection limit was 5 microg/l.
7872797	Probing the active sites of rat and human cytochrome P450 2E1 with alcohols and carboxylic acids.	Cytochrome P450 2E1 (P450 2E1) catalyzes the biotransformation of many low-molecular-weight compounds including industrial solvents, indoor pollutants, alcohol, and drugs. In order to understand the nature of the P450 2E1 active site, we studied the competitive inhibition of the P450 2E1-catalyzed N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylation by alcohols and carboxylic acids with different alkyl chain lengths. Using microsomes from acetone-treated rats as the enzyme source of P450 2E1, the Ki value for each compound was measured. With primary alcohols and secondary alcohols, the Ki decreased with the increase in the carbon chain length until the carbon number reached 6 or 7; the free energy increment of binding was 0.28 kcal/mol CH2 group. Similar inhibitory effects were also observed with human P450 2E1 heterologously expressed in Hep G2 cells. These results suggest that both rat and human P450 2E1 contain a pocket with hydrophobicity that serves as a binding site for low-molecular-weight substrates. Among a series of carboxylic acids and omega-hydroxycarboxylic acids investigated, dodecanoic acid was the strongest inhibitor (Ki = 22 microM), and 12-hydroxydodecanoic acid had the lowest Ki (320 microM) within the series of omega-hydroxycarboxylic acids. The free energy increment of binding for carboxylic acids was 0.35 kcal/mol CH2 group. 1,10-Decanedicarboxylic acid, which contains a carboxylic group at each end, showed a Ki > 20 mM. We suggest that for optimal interaction of a carboxylic acid moiety with the active site of P450 2E1, the hydrocarbon end of the molecule binds to the substrate binding site, leaving the carboxylic acid group outside of a proposed substrate access channel. The length of optimal substrates such as dodecanoic acid may reflect the length of the substrate access channel and the size of the active site. We estimate that the distance from the opening of the access channel to the oxygenation site is about 15 A. Based on the structural features of P450 2E1 substrates and competitive inhibitors, we propose a conceptual model to illustrate the binding of these molecules in the active site of P450 2E1.
17151189	The glucuronidation of Delta4-3-Keto C19- and C21-hydroxysteroids by human liver microsomal and recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs): 6alpha- and 21-hydroxyprogesterone are selective substrates for UGT2B7.	The stereo- and regioselective glucuronidation of 10 Delta(4)-3-keto monohydroxylated androgens and pregnanes was investigated to identify UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzyme-selective substrates. Kinetic studies were performed using human liver microsomes (HLMs) and a panel of 12 recombinant human UGTs as the enzyme sources. Five of the steroids, which were hydroxylated in the 6beta-, 7alpha-, 11beta- or 17alpha-positions, were not glucuronidated by HLMs. Of the remaining compounds, comparative kinetic and inhibition studies indicated that 6alpha- and 21-hydroxyprogesterone (OHP) were glucuronidated selectively by human liver microsomal UGT2B7. 6alpha-OHP glucuronidation by HLMs and UGT2B7 followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, whereas 21-OHP glucuronidation by these enzyme sources exhibited positive cooperativity. UGT2B7 was also identified as the enzyme responsible for the high-affinity component of human liver microsomal 11alpha-OHP glucuronidation. In contrast, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17 were the major forms involved in human liver microsomal testosterone 17beta-glucuronidation and the high-affinity component of 16alpha-OHP glucuronidation. Activity of UGT1A subfamily enzymes toward the hepatically glucuronidated substrates was generally low, although UGT1A4 and UGT1A9 contribute to the low-affinity components of microsomal 16alpha- and 11alpha-OHP glucuronidation, respectively. Interestingly, UGT1A10, which is expressed only in the gastrointestinal tract, exhibited activity toward most of the glucuronidated substrates. The results indicate that 6alpha- and 21-OHP may be used as selective "probes" for human liver microsomal UGT2B7 activity and, taken together, provide insights into the regio- and stereoselectivity of hydroxysteroid glucuronidation by human UGTs.
19389876	Effect of ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetic profile of ambrisentan.	Ambrisentan is an endothelin type A (ET(A))-selective receptor antagonist that is metabolized primarily by glucuronidation but also undergoes oxidative metabolism by CYP3A4. The potential for ketoconazole, the archetypal strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, to alter the pharmacokinetic profile of ambrisentan and its oxidative metabolite, 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan, was assessed in an open-label, nonrandomized, 2-period, single-sequence study in 16 healthy men. Participants received a single dose of ambrisentan 10 mg alone and after 4 days of ketoconazole 400 mg administered once daily. In the presence of multiple doses of ketoconazole, single-dose ambrisentan AUC(0-infinity) estimate was increased by 35.3%, whereas C(max) was increased by 20.0%. For the 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan metabolite, AUC(0-infinity) estimate was decreased by 4.0%, whereas C(max) was decreased by 16.5%. Concomitant administration of ambrisentan and ketoconazole was well tolerated. In summary, ketoconazole had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics or safety profile of ambrisentan; therefore, no changes in ambrisentan dose should be necessary when the drug is administered concomitantly with known CYP3A4 inhibitors.
23650031	Metabolite identification of a new tyrosine kinase inhibitor, HM781-36B, and a pharmacokinetic study by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	HM781-36B (1-[4-[4-(3,4-dichloro-2-fluorophenylamino)-7-methoxyquinazolin-6-yloxy]-piperidin-1-yl]prop-2-en-1-one hydrochloride) is a new anticancer drug to treat advanced solid tumors in clinical trial. In order to understand the behavior of HM781-36B in vitro and in vivo we validated an analytical method for HM781-36B and its major metabolites in plasma. In vivo and in vitro metabolism of HM781-36B was studied in dog plasma, urine and feces as well as using human and dog liver microsomes with extraction by ethyl acetate or methyl tert-butyl ether, respectively, and successfully separated by high-performance liquid chromatography diode-array detection mass spectrometry (HPLC-DAD/MS). Ten metabolites were identified by LC/ESI-ion trap mass spectrometry (MS, MS(2) , MS(3) and MRM) and LC/Q-TOF-MS/MS for exact mass measurement. For accurate characterization of the major metabolites, authentic standards (M1, M2, M4, and M10) were synthesized. Ten metabolites of HM781-36B in an in vitro mixture were separated and identified by LC/ESI-MS(n) . The MS/MS spectral patterns of the parent drug and metabolites exhibited two characteristic ions (A- and B-type ions) attributed to the cleavage of the ether bond between the piperidine ring and the quinazoline ring, providing important information on the site of chemical conversion during the metabolism. Six hydroxylated derivatives including dehalogenation and demethylation, two N-oxide forms, a demethylated form and de-acryloylpiperideine metabolites were observed. The LC/ESI-ion trap MS(n) technique was effective in obtaining structural information and yielded diagnostic ions for the identification of diverse metabolites. The multiple metabolic pathways of HM781-36B were suggested in in vitro and in vivo samples and the dihydroxylation (M1) and demethylation (M2) appeared to be the major metabolites.
11488619	Determination of triazolam involving its hydroxy metabolites in hair shaft and hair root by reversed-phase liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and application to human hair analysis.	A sensitive method using reversed-phase liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry has been developed for simultaneous determination of triazolam and its hydroxy metabolites in hair. After the addition of deuterium-labeled 1-hydroxymethyltriazolam as an internal standard, the analytes in hair shaft and hair root samples were extracted with a basic medium, CH(2)Cl(2):MeOH:28% NH(4)OH (20:80:2) at room temperature overnight. The chromatographic separation of the analytes was achieved using a semimicro HPLC column (3-microm particle size; 100 x 2.0-mm i.d.) by gradient elution with acetonitrile in water containing 1% acetic acid as eluent. The mass spectrometer was operated in selected-ion monitoring mode at quasi-molecular ions [M+H](+) of triazolam and its metabolites. The method has been applied to determine the incorporation of triazolam and its metabolites into the hair shafts and hair roots of Dark Agouti rats administered 3 or 6 mg/kg triazolam intraperitoneally twice a day for 5 days. Triazolam, 1-hydroxymethyltriazolam, and 4-hydroxytriazolam were incorporated into the hair shafts and the hair roots. The concentration of 4-hydroxytriazolam was the highest of all compounds detected. An unknown substance considered to be 1,4-dihydroxytriazolam also appeared in the hair samples. The structural elucidation was performed with online HPLC-MS after acetylation of the substance with acetic anhydride and pyridine. The time course studies of triazolam and the metabolites in both rat hair roots and plasma were carried out after single intraperitoneal administration of triazolam. The concentrations of triazolam and the metabolites in the hair roots reflected those in the plasma. The proposed method using selected-reaction monitoring was applied to the determination of triazolam and the metabolites in human hairs of a triazolam addict. Triazolam, 1-hydroxymethyltriazolam, and 4-hydroxytriazolam were identified in the black hair shafts, whereas only triazolam was detected in the hair roots and the white hair shafts. This is the first report on the detection of triazolam and its metabolites in human hairs.
9185746	The low-dose monoethylglycinexylidide test: assessment of liver function with fewer side effects.	The hepatic metabolism of lidocaine (1 mg/kg intravenously) to its metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide (MEG-X) is the basis of the standard MEG-X test. To reduce the lidocaine-induced side effects, we evaluated the MEG-X formation after 0.5 and 1 mg/kg lidocaine intravenously in subjects with normal (n = 5) and severely impaired liver function (n = 7) (study I). From this study, a low-dose test (MEG-X concentration 30 minutes after 50 mg lidocaine intravenously [MEG-X30min] normalized to standard MEG-X test results) was developed. Sensory side effects from this low dose and from the standard MEG-X test were compared in a double-blind, randomized, cross-over study (study II) comprising 15 individuals with normal liver function and 45 patients with cirrhosis (15 Child A, 15 Child B, and 15 Child C). In study I, MEG-X formation rate was dose-independent in patients with severely impaired liver function. In study II, normalized MEG-X test results (ranging from < or = 4 to 120 microg/L) were virtually identical to the standard test results (mean difference: -1.9 microg/L; 95% confidence interval [CI]: -5.3; 1.5 microg/L). Fewer individuals experienced side effects (30% vs. 53%) with the low-dose test (P = .0013). In a multivariate analysis, the Child-Pugh score was inversely related to the occurrence of side effects. The low-dose MEG-X test gives almost identical results to the standard MEG-X test and is associated with fewer side effects, which occur less often in individuals with more severely compromised liver function.
22782534	Excretion profile of hydrocodone, hydromorphone and norhydrocodone in urine following single dose administration of hydrocodone to healthy volunteers.	Abuse of prescription opioids for non-medical use has been on the rise over the past decade. The most commonly abused opioid is hydrocodone, a frequently prescribed pain medication metabolized by the body to hydromorphone, norhydrocodone and other minor metabolites. This study describes the excretion profile of hydrocodone, hydromorphone and norhydrocodone in urine following a single dose (10 mg) administration of hydrocodone to human subjects (n = 7) and presents a validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for analysis of the drug and its metabolites. Limit of quantitation was 5 ng/mL for all analytes; limit of detection was 2.5 ng/mL for hydrocodone and norhydrocodone and 5 ng/mL for hydromorphone. Peak concentrations of hydrocodone were found at 3:30-7:00 hours post-dose and were in the range of 612-2,190 ng/mL. Hydromorphone peak concentrations were found at 6:15-26:45 hours post-dose and ranged from 102 to 342 ng/mL. For norhydrocodone, peak concentrations were found at 4:20-13:00 hours post-dose and ranged from 811 to 3,460 ng/mL. Although hydromorphone was found at lower levels than hydrocodone, in six of seven subjects, it persisted for as long as hydrocodone was detected. Norhydrocodone was found at higher levels and lasted for a longer period of time than hydrocodone, thus making the nor-metabolite a valuable tool in evaluating hydrocodone use and/or misuse.
8868400	Application of HPLC with silica-phase and reversed-phase eluents for the determination of clomipramine and demethylated and 8-hydroxylated metabolites.	A rapid and efficient high-performance liquid chromatographic method using a reversed-phase eluent of methanol-water with butylamine on a silica column was developed for the separation and quantitation of clomipramine (CMI), its demethylated metabolites (desmethyl-clomipramine and didesmethyl-clomipramine [DDCMI]), and its hydroxylated metabolites (8-hydroxy-clomipramine and 8-hydroxy-desmethylclomipramine). A liquid-liquid extraction procedure, which involved an alkaline extraction with heptane-isoamyl alcohol, first from a 1-mL serum sample and then from the acidic back extract, was used. The chromatographic separation was rapid (20 min), and the ultraviolet detection (at 254 nm) was sufficiently sensitive (limit of detection, 5-10 ng/mL). Except for DDCMI, the calibration was linear (r > 0.99, n = 5), and within-day and day-to-day coefficients of variation remained less than 11%. The method was used to analyze CMI and its metabolites in the serum of depressive patients and to determine their hydroxylation and demethylation capacities.
22259019	Identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases involved in N-carbamoyl glucuronidation of lorcaserin.	Lorcaserin, a selective serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist, is a weight management agent in clinical development. Lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation governs the predominant excretory pathway of lorcaserin in humans. Human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) responsible for lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation are identified herein. Lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronide formation was characterized by the following approaches: metabolic screening using human tissues (liver, kidney, intestine, and lung) and recombinant enzymes, kinetic analyses, and inhibition studies. Whereas microsomes from all human tissues studied herein were found to be catalytically active for lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation, liver microsomes were the most efficient. With recombinant UGT enzymes, lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation was predominantly catalyzed by three UGT2Bs (UGT2B7, UGT2B15, and UGT2B17), whereas two UGT1As (UGT1A6 and UGT1A9) played a minor role. UGT2B15 was most efficient, with an apparent K(m) value of 51.6  1.9 M and V(max) value of 237.4  2.8 pmol/mg protein/min. The rank order of catalytic efficiency of human UGT enzymes for lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation was UGT2B15 > UGT2B7 > UGT2B17 > UGT1A9 > UGT1A6. Inhibition of lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation activities of UGT2B7, UGT2B15, and UGT2B17 in human liver microsomes by mefenamic acid, bisphenol A, and eugenol further substantiated the involvement of these UGT2B isoforms. In conclusion, multiple human UGT enzymes catalyze N-carbamoyl glucuronidation of lorcaserin; therefore, it is unlikely that inhibition of any one of these UGT activities will lead to significant inhibition of the lorcaserin N-carbamoyl glucuronidation pathway. Thus, the potential for drug-drug interaction by concomitant administration of a drug(s) that is metabolized by any of these UGTs is remote.
9187385	Gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric quantitation of urinary buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine after derivatization by direct extractive alkylation.	A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric procedure for the quantitation of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine has been developed in which the analytes were converted, after enzyme hydrolysis, to their methyl derivatives by direct extractive alkylation using tetrahexylammonium hydrogen sulphate phase transfer reagent and iodomethane dissolved in tert.-butylmethyl ether. The procedure utilised a sample volume of 2 ml and gave a detection limit of 0.2 ng ml(-1) for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. The buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine standard curves were linear in the concentration range of 1-100 ng ml(-1) with r=0.999. The coefficients of variation for the intra-run precision were 1.3% for buprenorphine and 8.8% for norbuprenorphine (n=10). The coefficients of variation for the inter-run precision were 7.7% for buprenorphine and 10.1% for norbuprenorphine (n=5). The method recovery was 92% (C.V.=3.3%) for buprenorphine and 104% (C.V.=2.9%) for norbuprenorphine (n=10).
16685529	Thalidomide and celecoxib as potential modulators of irinotecan's activity in cancer patients.	Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation induces resistance to irinotecan. Preclinically, thalidomide and COX-2 inhibitors reduce NF-kappaB activation. We tested the feasibility of combining irinotecan with thalidomide and thalidomide/celecoxib in patients with refractory malignancies. The study was conducted in two parts. First, the optimal dose of thalidomide (400 or 200 mg daily) in combination with irinotecan 125 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8 every 3 weeks was determined. In the second part, celecoxib 400 mg twice-daily was added to irinotecan/thalidomide. Pharmacokinetics of irinotecan and thalidomide alone or concurrently were evaluated. Tumor necrosis factor alpha, beta-fibroblast growth factor, and NF-kappaB activation were measured in blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). No CYP450 enzyme inducers/inhibitors were allowed. Thirty-six patients were enrolled: Eleven received thalidomide 400 mg, 13 thalidomide 200 mg and 12 thalidomide 400 mg and celecoxib, with irinotecan. For the two-drug combination, there was a higher rate of moderate/severe diarrhea/myelosuppression with thalidomide 200 mg. Thus thalidomide 400 mg was combined with celecoxib. The triple combination resulted in similar toxicity as the doublet with the lower thalidomide dose. Concurrent administration of irinotecan/thalidomide did not influence pharmacokinetics. Anti-tumor responses occurred in two patients and prolonged stabilization in eight others. NF-kappaB activation increased over time. Patients experiencing tumor response or prolonged stabilization had lower NF-kappaB activation, albeit not statistically significant (P = 0.124). The combination of thalidomide/irinotecan is safe and devoid of PK interactions. Thalidomide 400 mg appeared more suitable for combination, whereas the addition of celecoxib did not improve tolerability. Tumor-specific studies in patients with lesser prior treatment will be necessary to establish the therapeutic impact of the combinations.
15866497	Determination of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and perchloroethylene in urine samples by headspace solid phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A method for the determination of volatile chlorinated hydrocarbons, namely dichloromethane (DCM), trichloroethylene (TCE), and perchloroethylene (PCE), in urine samples was developed using headspace solid phase microextraction (HS-SPME) gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). HS-SPME was performed using a 75 microm Carboxen-polydimethylsiloxane fiber. Factors, which affect the HS-SPME process, such as adsorption and desorption times, stirring, salting-out effect, and temperature of sampling have been evaluated and optimized. The highest extraction efficiency was obtained when sampling was performed at room temperature (22 degrees C), from samples saturated with salt and under agitation. Linearity of the HS-SPME-GC-MS method was established over four orders of magnitude and the limit of detection was 0.005 microg/l for all the compounds. Precision, calculated as %R.S.D. at three different concentration levels, was within 1-8% for all intra- and inter-day determinations. The method was applied to the quantitative determination of TCE and PCE in human urine samples from exposed (TCE, n=5; median, 9.32 microg/l and PCE, n=39; median, 0.58 microg/l) and non-exposed individuals (n=120; median concentrations, 0.64, 0.22 and 0.11 microg/l for DCM, TCE and PCE, respectively. In addition, two cases of acute accidental exposure to DCM are reported, and the elimination kinetics in blood and urine was followed up. The calculated half-lives of urinary and blood DCM were, respectively, 7.5 and 8.1 h for one subject and 3.8 and 4.3 h for the other.
21289073	Metabolism and disposition of [14C]brivanib alaninate after oral administration to rats, monkeys, and humans.	Brivanib [(R)-1-(4-(4-fluoro-2-methyl-1H-indol-5-yloxy)-5-methylpyrrolo[1,2,4]triazin-6-yloxy)propan-2-ol, BMS-540215] is a potent and selective dual inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling pathways. Its alanine prodrug, brivanib alaninate [(1R,2S)-2-aminopropionic acid 2-[4-(4-fluoro-2-methyl-1H-indol-5-yloxy)-5-methylpyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-6-yloxy]-1-methylethyl ester, BMS-582664], is currently under development as an oral agent for the treatment of cancer. This study describes the in vivo biotransformation of brivanib after a single oral dose of [(14)C]brivanib alaninate to intact rats, bile duct-cannulated (BDC) rats, intact monkeys, BDC monkeys, and humans. Fecal excretion was the primary route of elimination of drug-derived radioactivity in animals and humans. In BDC rats and monkeys, the majority of radioactivity was excreted in bile. Brivanib alaninate was rapidly and completely converted via hydrolysis to brivanib in vivo. The area under the curve from zero to infinity of brivanib accounted for 14.2 to 54.3% of circulating radioactivity in plasma in animals and humans, suggesting that metabolites contributed significantly to the total drug-related radioactivity. In plasma from animals and humans, brivanib was a prominent circulating component. All the metabolites that humans were exposed to were also present in toxicological species. On the basis of metabolite exposure and activity against VEGF and FGF receptors of the prominent human circulating metabolites, only brivanib is expected to contribute to the pharmacological effects in humans. Unchanged brivanib was not detected in urine or bile samples, suggesting that metabolic clearance was the primary route of elimination. The primary metabolic pathways were oxidative and conjugative metabolism of brivanib.
17935300	A rational chemical intervention strategy to circumvent bioactivation liabilities associated with a nonpeptidyl thrombopoietin receptor agonist containing a 2-amino-4-arylthiazole motif.	The current study examined the bioactivation potential of a nonpeptidyl thrombopoietin receptor agonist, 1-(3-chloro-5-((4-(4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)thiazol-2-yl)carbamoyl)pyridine-2-yl)piperidine-4-carboxylic acid (1), containing a 2-carboxamido-4-arylthiazole moiety in the core structure. Toxicological risks arising from P450-catalyzed C4-C5 thiazole ring opening in 1 via the epoxidation-->diol sequence were alleviated, since mass spectrometric analysis of human liver microsome and/or hepatocyte incubations of 1 did not reveal the formation of reactive acylthiourea and/or glyoxal metabolites, which are prototypic products derived from thiazole ring scission. However, 4-(4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)thiazol-2-amine (2), the product of hydrolysis of 1 in human liver microsomes, hepatocytes, and plasma, underwent oxidative bioactivation in human liver microsomes, since trapping studies with glutathione led to the formation of two conjugates derived from the addition of the thiol nucleophile to 2 and a thiazole- S-oxide metabolite of 2. Mass spectral fragmentation and NMR analysis indicated that the site of attachment of the glutathionyl moiety in both conjugates was the C5 position in the thiazole ring. Based on the structures of the glutathione conjugates, two bioactivation pathways are proposed, one involving beta-elimination of an initially formed hydroxylamine metabolite and the other involving direct two-electron oxidation of the electron-rich 2-aminothiazole system to electrophilic intermediates. This mechanistic insight into the bioactivation process allowed the development of a rational chemical intervention strategy that involved blocking the C5 position with a fluorine atom or replacing the thiazole ring with a 1,2,4-thiadiazole group. These structural changes not only abrogated the bioactivation liability associated with 1 but also resulted in compounds that retained the attractive pharmacological and pharmacokinetic attributes of the prototype agent.
3456015	Ampicillin concentrations in human serum, gingiva, mandibular bone, dental follicle, and dental pulp following a single oral administration of bacampicillin.	Ninety-six patients who underwent the extraction of impacted mandibular third molars in a nonfasting state were given a single oral dose of bacampicillin preoperatively. Specimens of serum from venous blood (n = 107), gingiva (n = 57), mandibular bone (n = 68), dental follicle (n = 56), and dental pulp (n = 43) were obtained during the operation and assayed for ampicillin content. The mean peak concentrations in serum, gingiva, mandibular bone, dental follicle, and dental pulp all occurred approximately 90 minutes after administration. The concentration ratios of the tissues to the corresponding serum at the peak time were 0.50, 0.20, 0.34, and 0.61, respectively. Bacampicillin showed good absorption by the intestine, and sufficient concentrations of the resulting metabolite, ampicillin, were found in the oral tissues.
19070586	Development of an LC-MS/MS method for the simultaneous quantification of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole in human plasma.	A selective, sensitive, and accurate liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the simultaneous determination of aripiprazole and its active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole in human plasma has been developed using papaverine as internal standard (IS). LC-MS/MS analysis was carried out on a Finnigan LC-TSQ Quantum mass spectrometer using positive ion electrospray ionization (ESI(+)) and selected reaction monitoring (SRM). The assays for aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole were linear over the ranges of 0.1 to 600 ng/ml and 0.01 to 60 ng/ml, respectively. The average recoveries in plasma samples both were better than 85%. The intra- and interrun precision and accuracy values were found to be within the assay variability criteria limits according to the US Food and Drug Administration guidelines. The developed method was proved to be suitable for use in a clinical pharmacokinetic study after a single oral administration of a 5-mg aripiprazole tablet in healthy Chinese volunteers.
22533317	Potent inhibition of CYP1A2 by Frutinone A, an active ingredient of the broad spectrum antimicrobial herbal extract from P. fruticosa.	1. Frutinone is an active ingredient extracted from the lipophilic fraction of the Polygala Fruticosa demonstrating various antibacterial and fungal properties. The aim of this study was to characterize its metabolism in an effort to understand metabolism based drug-herb interactions. 2. In vitro metabolic clearance and metabolite identification studies were done using cryopreserved hepatocytes. Reaction phenotyping and inhibition studies were done using human liver microsomes and recombinant cytochrome P450s (CYPs). Frutinone A-CYP1A2 interactions were rationalized using docking simulations. 3. Hepatic clearance was predicted to be low (7.17 mL/min/kg), with reaction phenotyping studies indicating no clearance by the enzymes tested. Frutinone was identified as a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2 with moderate effects on CYP2C19, 2C9, 2D6 and 3A4. CYP1A2 inhibition was reversible and characterised by an IC(50) of 0.56 M. Inhibition was differential showing mixed (K(i) = 0.48 M) and competitive (K(i) = 0.31 M) inhibition with 3-cyano-7-ethoxycoumarin and ethoxyresorufin, respectively. Two binding sites, one for inhibitors and the other for substrates were identified in silico. 4. The potent CYP1A2 inhibition by Frutinone A could be predictive of the potential drug-herb interaction risk in the use of herbal extracts from P. fruticosa. The data suggest future pharmacological research on this chromocoumarin should take metabolic properties into account.
12784319	Time dependent pharmacokinetics of albendazole in human.	The pharmacokinetics of the main metabolites of albendazole (albendazole sulphoxide (ABZ-SO) and albendazole sulphone (ABZ-SO2) were studied in 12 healthy human volunteers in a double blind design on the first and last days of oral administration of 800 mg albendazole daily for 15 days. No significant differences were observed in C(max), T(max) and V(d)/F of ABZ-SO, whereas the AUC, AUMC and T(1/2) of this metabolite were significantly reduced and Cl/F was significantly increased in multiple dosing. There were also no significant differences in the C(max), T(max), V(d)/F and T(1/2) of ABZ-SO2, whereas the AUC and AUMC of this metabolite were significantly reduced and Cl/F was significantly increased in multiple dosing. These observations suggest time dependent pharmacokinetics of albendazole (observed for ABZ-SO and ABZ-SO2), which was explained on the basis of the induction of enzymes involved in the metabolism of ABZ-SO (albendazole sulphoxide) to metabolites other than albendazole sulphone in multiple dosing.
12489025	Antitumor activity of 2-fluoro-2'-deoxyadenosine against tumors that express Escherichia coli purine nucleoside phosphorylase.	The selective expression of Escherichia coli purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) in solid tumors has been successfully used to activate two purine nucleoside analogs [9-(2-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-6-methylpurine (MeP-dR) and 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-2-fluoroadenine (F-araA)] resulting in lasting tumor regressions and cures. E. coli PNP also cleaves 2-fluoro-2'-deoxyadenosine (F-dAdo) to 2-F-adenine, which is the toxic purine analog liberated from F-araA that has high bystander activity and is active against nonproliferating tumor cells. As F-dAdo is 3000 times better than F-araA as a substrate for E. coli PNP, we have evaluated its antitumor activity against D54 gliomas that express E. coli PNP and have characterized its in vivo metabolism in order to better understand its mechanism of action with respect to the other two agents. Like MeP-dR and F-araA-5'-monophosphate (F-araAMP, a prodrug of F-araA), treatment of mice bearing D54 tumors that express E. coli PNP with F-dAdo resulted in excellent antitumor activity. Although F-dAdo was as active as MeP-dR and better than F-araAMP, it was not dramatically better than either compound because of its short plasma half-life and the limited activation of F-adenine to toxic metabolites. Regardless, these results indicated that F-dAdo was also an excellent prodrug for use with gene vectors that deliver E. coli PNP to tumor cells.
11711113	Modulatory effects of indomethacin on androgen metabolism in human gingival and oral periosteal fibroblasts.	The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent indomethacin (I) suppresses gingival inflammation and alveolar bone resorption. Androgens particularly 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) have anabolic effects on connective tissue and bone matrices. Human oral periosteal fibroblasts (HPF) and gingival fibroblasts (HGF) instigate healing in inflammatory periodontal lesions. The aim of this investigation was to compare the modulatory effects of I on the metabolism of two androgen substrates in human oral periosteal and gingival fibroblasts in culture. Monolayer cultures of both cell types (5(th)-9(th) passage) were established in Eagle's MEM and incubated with 14C-testosterone/14C-4-androstenedione and serial concentrations of I (0.5-50 microg/ml) for 24 h. The steroid metabolites were solvent extracted from the medium, separated by TLC and quantified using a radioisotope scanner. Both androgen substrates were metabolized mainly to DHT and 4-androstenedione/testosterone respectively, expressing 5 alpha-reductase and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) activity in both HPF and HGF. There were 51% and 73% increases in the levels of DHT over controls, with HGF and HPF respectively (n = 6; n = 4, P < 0.01) in response to I at 1-5 microg/ml, often reaching control values at 50 microg/ml. The expression of 17 beta-HSD activity showed less stimulation than the levels of DHT. Both androgen substrates were effective in this metabolic conversion, which is applicable to healing responses in both males and females in vivo. There were 57% increases (n = 4; P < 0.01) over controls, in the formation of androstanediol from 14C-4-androstenedione at 10 microg of I, in HPF. This transformation may regulate androgen action in androgen-dependent tissue. In addition to its anti-inflammatory properties, indomethacin can contribute to anabolic reparatory responses, by increasing the expression of steroid metabolizing enzymes in gingival and periosteal fibroblasts, in the inflammatory periodontal lesion.
21415280	Aprepitant pharmacokinetics and assessing the impact of aprepitant on cyclophosphamide metabolism in cancer patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Aprepitant, a neurokinin antagonist, is an effective antiemetic agent in chemotherapy for delayed nausea and vomiting. The study objective was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant and concurrent cyclophosphamide (CY), often a component of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) conditioning regimen, in cancer patients undergoing HSCT. Forty subjects were randomized to either aprepitant or placebo in addition to standard antiemetics. Aprepitant or placebo was started 1 hour before the first chemotherapy or radiation dose for HSCT conditioning and administered daily until 4 days after infusion of the hematopoietic cell graft (for a total of 10-12 days). Serial blood samples were collected for aprepitant and CY plus 2 important CY metabolites. The results indicate that aprepitant is well absorbed and does not auto-induce its metabolism. No significant drug interaction was observed with CY or its metabolites. A significant portion of the patients had subtherapeutic aprepitant concentrations; however, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting were effectively managed. No dosage adjustment was necessary, and administration of aprepitant in HSCT at the prescribed dosage of 125 mg orally on day 1 and 80 mg orally on each consecutive day through day +4 after HSCT was well tolerated with no significant changes in CY pharmacokinetic parameters.
19900514	In vivo CYP2E1 phenotyping as a new potential biomarker of occupational and experimental exposure to benzene.	Assessing CYP2E1 phenotype in vivo may be important to predict individual susceptibility to those chemicals, including benzene, which are metabolically activated by this isoenzyme. Chlorzoxazone (CHZ), a specific CYP2E1 substrate, is readily hydroxylated to 6-OH-chlorzoxazone (6-OH-CHZ) by liver CYP2E1 and the metabolic ratio 6-OH-CHZ/CHZ in serum (MR) is a specific and sensitive biomarker of CYP2E1 activity in vivo in humans. We used this MR as a potential biomarker of effect in benzene-treated rats and, also, in humans occupationally exposed to low levels of benzene. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (375-400g b.w.) were treated i.p. for 3 days with either a 0.5ml solution of benzene (5mmol/kg b.w.) in corn oil, or 0.5ml corn oil alone. Twenty-four hours after the last injection, a polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution of CHZ (20mg/kg b.w.) was injected i.p. in both treated and control animals. After 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, and 240min from injection, 0.2ml blood was taken from the tip tail and stored at -20 degrees C until analysis. A modified reverse phase HPLC method using a 5microm Ultrasphere C18 column equipped with a direct-connection ODS guard column, was used to measure CHZ and its metabolite 6-OH-CHZ in serum. No statistically significant difference in the MR was observed, at any sampling time, between benzene-treated and control rats. The concentration-versus-time area under the curve (AUC), however, was lower (p<0.05, Mann-Whitney test), whereas the systemic clearance was higher (p<0.05) in treated than in control rats. Eleven petrochemical workers occupationally exposed to low levels of airborne benzene (mean+/-SD, 25.0+/-24.4microg/m(3)) and 13 non-exposed controls from the same factory (mean+/-SD, 6.7+/-4.0microg/m(3)) signed an informed consent form and were administered 500mg CHZ p.o. Two hours later a venous blood sample was taken for CHZ and 6-OH-CHZ measurements. Despite exposed subjects showed significantly higher levels of t,t-MA and S-PMA, two biomarkers of exposure to benzene, than non-exposed workers, no difference in the MR mean values+/-SD was found between exposed (0.59+/-0.29) and non-exposed (0.57+/-0.23) subjects. So, benzene was found to modify CHZ disposition, but not CYP2E1 phenotype in benzene-treated rats, nor in workers exposed to benzene, probably due to the levels of exposure being too low.
18621591	High throughput and sensitive determination of trazodone and its primary metabolite, m-chlorophenylpiperazine, in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A precise, sensitive and high throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for simultaneous determination of trazodone (TRZ) and its primary metabolite, m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), in human plasma was developed and validated. The analytes and the internal standard-nefazodone were extracted from 500 microL aliquots of human plasma via liquid-liquid extraction in n-hexane. Chromatographic separation was achieved in a run time of 2.5 min on a Betabasic cyano column (100 mm x 2.1 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic conditions. Detection of analytes and IS was done by tandem mass spectrometry, operating in positive ion and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) acquisition mode. The protonated precursor to product ion transitions monitored for TRZ, mCPP and IS were m/z 372.2-->176.2, 197.2-->118.1 and 470.5-->274.6 respectively. The method was fully validated for its sensitivity, selectivity, accuracy and precision, matrix effect, stability study and dilution integrity. A linear dynamic range of 10.0-3000.0 ng/mL for TRZ and 0.2-60.0 ng/mL for mCPP was evaluated with mean correlation coefficient (r) of 0.9986 and 0.9990 respectively. The intra-batch and inter-batch precision (%CV) across five validation runs (LLOQ, lower limit of quantitation; LQC, low quality control; MQC, middle quality control; HQC, high quality control and ULOQ, upper limit of quantitation) was < or =8.4% for both the analytes. The method was successfully applied to a bioequivalence study of 100mg trazodone tablet formulation in 36 healthy Indian male subjects under fasting and fed conditions.
12376141	Non-linear production of benzene oxide-albumin adducts with human exposure to benzene.	Benzene is initially metabolized to benzene oxide, which either undergoes further metabolism or reacts with macromolecules including proteins. Previously reported levels of benzene oxide-albumin adducts (BO-Alb) are analyzed from 30 workers exposed to 0.2-302 ppm benzene and 43 controls from Shanghai, China. Although both exposed workers and controls had significant levels of BO-Alb in their blood, exposed subjects' adduct levels (GM=378 pmol/g protein) were much greater than those of controls (GM=115 pmol/g protein). When the natural logarithm of the BO-Alb level was regressed upon the natural logarithm of exposure among the 30 exposed subjects, a strong effect of benzene exposure was observed (R(2)=0.612; p<0.0001). Because the slope of the relationship between BO-Alb and benzene exposure was significantly less than one in log-space, we infer that production of benzene oxide was less than proportional to benzene exposure. Since benzene is a substrate for CYP2E1, these results are consistent with saturation of CYP450 metabolism. They indicate that deviations from linear metabolism began at or below benzene exposures of 10 ppm and that pronounced saturation was apparent at 40-50 ppm. To our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate the linearity of human metabolism of a carcinogen based upon protein adducts.
6643790	Benzoyl peroxide: percutaneous penetration and metabolic disposition. II. Effect of concentration.	The effect of drug concentrations of 2.5%, 5%, and 10% upon the transepidermal penetration of 14C-benzoyl peroxide in a lotion vehicle was assessed in excised human skin and in vivo in the rhesus monkey. In vitro, penetration of benzoyl peroxide was concentration-dependent, both as to rate and to amount, as measured by the hourly recovery of the metabolite, benzoic acid, from the dermal side of the model. In vivo, the higher the concentration of benzoyl peroxide applied, the greater the amount absorbed, as indicated by the urinary excretion of 14C-benzoic acid. Metabolic disposition of benzoyl peroxide, in turn, was unaffected by drug concentration. In all instances, the benzoyl peroxide absorbed was excreted rapidly in urine as benzoic acid; no hippuric acid was detected at any time. We conclude that (1) use of the excised human skin model for this compound can provide useful data in studies of the effects of vehicle and concentration on topical drug delivery, (2) the transepidermal delivery of benzoyl peroxide, but not its metabolic disposition, is concentration-dependent, and (3) the renal clearance of the systemically absorbed drug is so rapid that it precludes passage through the liver--therefore, no systemic toxicity due to drug accumulation can be expected.
16415114	In vitro and in vivo inhibitory effect of stiripentol on clobazam metabolism.	A metabolic interaction between stiripentol (STP), an anticonvulsant agent that inhibits the activity of several cytochromes P450 (P450s), and clobazam (CLB), a 1,5-benzodiazepine, used in association with STP in severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy was observed in vivo. This interaction was characterized in vitro using cDNA-expressed CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 (main P450 involved in CLB metabolism) to calculate K(i) and IC(50) of stiripentol in comparison with ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor) and omeprazole (CYP2C19 inhibitor). STP inhibited N-demethylation of CLB to N-desmethylclobazam (NCLB) mediated by CYP3A4 (noncompetitively) and CYP2C19 (competitively) with K(i) = 1.59 +/- 0.07 and 0.516 +/- 0.065 microM and IC(50) = 1.58 microM [95% confidence interval (CI95%) = 1.20-2.08] and 3.29 microM (CI95% = 1.87-5.79), respectively. STP inhibited also more strongly the 4'-hydroxylation of NCLB to 4'-hydroxy-N-desmethylclobazam by CYP2C19 [competitive interaction with K(i) = 0.139 +/- 0.025 microM and IC(50) = 0.276 microM (CI95% = 0.206-0.371)]. The inhibitory effect of STP on CLB demethylation by CYP3A4 was much weaker than that of ketoconazole [IC(50) = 0.023 microM (CI95% = 0.016-0.033)], whereas its effect on NCLB hydroxylation by CYP2C19 was much higher than that of omeprazole [IC(50) = 2.99 microM (CI95% = 2.11-4.24)]. The major in vitro inhibitory effect of STP on CLB metabolism and mostly on NCLB biotransformation is consistent with the changes in vivo in CLB and NCLB plasma concentrations in children treated by the association CLB/STP.
309938	Quantitation of the anti-inflammatory agent fenbufen and its metabolites in human serum and urine using high-pressure liquid chromatography.	Specific procedures are described for the determination of fenbufen and its metabolites in serum and urine using high-pressure liquid chromatography. Serum or urine extracts were chromatographed on a bounded reversed-phase partitioning column. The sensitivity of the assay for fenbufen was 0.5 microgram/ml in serum with 2-ml samples and 1.0 microgram/ml in urine with 1-ml samples. The procedures are suitable for bioavailability and pharmacokinetic studies.
15041069	Effects of chronic exposure to low-level cadmium on renal tubular function and CYP2A6-mediated coumarin metabolism in healthy human subjects.	Relationships between cadmium (Cd) body burden, kidney function and coumarin metabolism were investigated using two groups of 197 and 200 healthy Thais with men and women in nearly equal numbers. A mean age of one group was 30.5 years and it was 39.3 years for the other group. Of 397, 20 subjects (5%) excreted urine Cd between 1.4 microg/g and 3.8 microg/g creatinine and these subjects faced 10-15% increase in the probability of having abnormal urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG-uria). The prevalence of NAG-uria varied with Cd body burden in a dose-dependent manner (chi2 = 22, P < 0.008). Also NAG-nuria was one of the three kidney effect markers tested that showed the greatest strength of correlation with urine Cd in both men and women (r = 0.48, P < 0.001). In addition, urine Cd excretion of men and women showed a positive correlation (r = 0.46 to 0.54, P < 0.001) with urine 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-OHC) excretion which was used as a marker of liver cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) enzyme activity. Urinary Cd excretion accounted for 25% of the total variation in urine 7-OHC excretion (P < 0.001). These data suggest that Cd may increase the expression of CYP2A6 in liver, resulting in enhanced coumarin metabolism in subjects with high Cd body burden.
15333515	The chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) as a pharmacokinetic model for selection of drug candidates: model characterization and application.	The chimpanzee (CHP) was evaluated as a pharmacokinetic model for humans (HUMs) using propranolol, verapamil, theophylline, and 12 proprietary compounds. Species differences were observed in the systemic clearance of theophylline (approximately 5-fold higher in CHPs), a low clearance compound, and the bioavailability of propranolol and verapamil (lower in CHPs), both high clearance compounds. The systemic clearance of propranolol (approximately 1.53 l/h/kg) suggested that the hepatic blood flow in CHPs is comparable to that in humans. No substantial differences were observed in the in vitro protein binding. A preliminary attempt was made to characterize cytochrome P450 (P450) activities in CHP and HUM liver microsomes. Testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation and tolbutamide methylhydroxylation activities were comparable in CHP and HUM liver microsomes. In contrast, dextromethorphan O-demethylation and phenacetin O-deethylation activities were approximately 10-fold higher (per mg protein) in CHP liver microsomes. Intrinsic clearance estimates in CHP liver microsomes were higher for propranolol (approximately 10-fold) and theophylline (approximately 5-fold) and similar for verapamil. Of the 12 proprietary compounds, 3 had oral clearances that differed in the two species by more than 3-fold, an acceptable range for biological variability. Most of the observed differences are consistent with species differences in P450 enzyme activity. Oral clearances of proprietary compounds in HUMs were significantly correlated to those from CHPs (r = 0.68; p = 0.015), but not to estimates from rat, dog, and monkey. In summary, the chimpanzee serves as a valuable surrogate model for human pharmacokinetics, especially when species differences in P450 enzyme activity are considered.
12203105	A formula for predicting optimal dosage of nedaplatin based on renal function in adult cancer patients.	To predict the optimal dosage for nedaplatin ( cis-diammineglycolatoplatinum), an anticancer drug and a platinum derivative like cisplatin and carboplatin, a simple formula was developed based on renal function in Japanese adult cancer patients. Unbound platinum concentrations in plasma after intravenous infusion of nedaplatin were measured for 187 courses in 145 patients with lung, esophageal, and cervical and ovarian cancer undergoing clinical treatment. The data were divided into two sets, a model development data set of 94 courses and a validation data set of 93 courses. Regression analysis was applied to the relationship between the unbound platinum clearance (CL) of nedaplatin and the patients' renal function. The predictability and usefulness of this formula were assessed by validation using the external data set of 93 courses obtained from 75 patients. A simple formula was obtained for predicting the platinum clearance using the creatinine clearance (CLcr): CL=0.0836xCLcr+3.45. Indices for the predictive performance for CL and the area under the plasma concentration curve (AUC) in the validation data were almost the same as those for the model development data. A formula for predicting the CL of unbound platinum after nedaplatin administration was developed, and only CLcr was found to be a significant covariate of the CL. This formula was useful for estimating the CL for the second as well as the first treatment with nedaplatin.
494666	Determination of loxapine in human plasma and urine and identification of three urinary metabolites.	1. A g.l.c. method for quantitative determination of loxapine (2-chloro-11-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)dibenz(b,f)(1,4)oxazepine), in human plasma and urine is described. 2. Preliminary pharmacokinetic data on plasma concn of loxapine over 12 h from five psychiatric patients who received a total average dose of 80 mg of loxapine succinate per day orally for twelve weeks are presented. 3. In addition to unchanged loxapine, three urinary metabolic products, namely aromatic ring-hydroxy loxapine, desmethyl loxapine and loxapine-N-oxide, were identified using g.l.c.--mass spectrometry.
6894619	Human metabolism of 7-substituted theophyllines: N3-demethylation and lack of oxidation of proxyphylline.	Proxyphylline metabolism after oral administration to humans was studied. The only metabolic process detected was N3-demethylation, and 1-methyl-7-(2-hydroxypropyl)xanthine was isolated and identified. Proxyphylline was excreted in urine both an unchanged compound (12.7% of dose) and as its metabolic product (30.2% of dose). The latter substance was not found (detection limit = 1 microgram/ml) in the systemic circulation. Thus, it probably does not participate in the pharmacological activity of proxyphylline in vivo, although it was as active as the parent drug in relaxing the guinea pig tracheal chain. Lack of metabolism to uric acid derivatives is explained by the low affinity of both substances toward the enzymes the oxidize xanthine (xanthine oxidase) and methylxanthine derivatives. The presence of the metabolite in urine interferes with some analytical methods developed for estimation of unchanged proxyphylline. Published data on the urinary excretion of this drug need reevaluation.
8889672	Human pharmacokinetics of intravenous, sublingual, and buccal buprenorphine.	Buprenorphine is a potent opioid analgesic used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain. At higher doses, it has demonstrated potential for treating heroin dependence. This study was undertaken to investigate buprenorphine pharmacokinetics by different routes of administration at dosages approximating those used in opioid-dependence studies. Six healthy men who were nondependent but who had a history of heroin use were administered buprenorphine in a crossover design study by intravenous (1.2 mg), sublingual (4.0 mg), and buccal (4.0 mg) routes of administration. Plasma samples were collected up to 96 h and assayed for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine by negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Plasma concentrations of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were analyzed by nonlinear regression analysis with standard noncompartmental methods. Buprenorphine biovailability by the sublingual and buccal routes was estimated as 51.4% and 27.8%, respectively, although there was considerable interindividual variability by both routes of administration. The terminal elimination half-lives were longer for the sublingual and buccal routes than for the intravenous route. The extended elimination half-lives may be due to a shallow depot effect involving sequestration of buprenorphine in the oral mucosa. Norbuprenorphine mean peak plasma concentrations were less than 1 ng/mL and were highly variable among different routes of administration and individuals. The terminal elimination half-life of norbuprenorphine was longer than buprenorphine.
9029730	The key role of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases in sex steroid biology.	17 beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) controls the last step in the formation of all androgens and all estrogens. This crucial role of 17 beta-HSD is performed by at least five 17 beta-HSD isoenzymes having individual cell-specific expression, substrate specificity, regulation mechanisms, and reductive or oxidative catalytic activity. Both estrogenic and androgenic 17 beta-HSD activities were found in all 25 rhesus monkey and 15 human peripheral intracrine tissues examined. Type 1 17 beta-HSD is a protein of 327 amino acids catalyzing the formation of 17 beta-estradiol from estrone. Its x-ray structure was the first to be determined among mammalian steroidogenic enzymes. Initially crystallized with NAD, the crystal structure of type 1 17 beta-HSD has just been determined as a complex with 17 beta-estradiol, thereby illustrating the conformation of the substrate-binding site. Type 2 17 beta-HSD degrades 17 beta-estradiol into estrone and testosterone into androstenedione, and type 4 17 beta-HSD mainly degrades 17 beta-estradiol into estrone and androst-5-ene-3 beta, 17 beta-diol into dehydroepiandrosterone. Types 3 and 5 17 beta-HSD, on the other hand, catalyze the formation of testosterone from androstenedione in the testis and peripheral tissues, respectively. The various types of human 17 beta-HSD, because of their tissue-specific expression and substrate specificity, provide each peripheral cell with the necessary mechanisms to control the level of intracellular androgens and/or estrogens, a new area of hormonal control that we call intracrinology.
18056254	CYP2D6-Mediated metabolism of a novel acyl coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase inhibitor, pactimibe, and its unique plasma metabolite, R-125528.	Pactimibe sulfate is a novel acyl coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase inhibitor. We conducted metabolic studies of pactimibe and its plasma metabolite, R-125528. Pactimibe had multiple metabolic pathways including indolin oxidation to form R-125528, omega-1 oxidation, N-dealkylation, and glucuronidation. Among them, the indolin oxidation and the omega-1 oxidation were dominant and were mainly catalyzed by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, respectively. The intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) values for these pathways in human hepatic microsomes were 0.63 and 0.76 microl/min/mg-protein, respectively. On the other hand, the metabolic reaction for R-125528 was restricted. It was demonstrated that omega-1 oxidation was the only pathway that could eliminate R-125528 from the systemic circulation. To our surprise, only CYP2D6-expressing microsomes could catalyze the reaction, and omega-1 oxidation was strongly correlated with the CYP2D6 marker reaction, dextromethorphan O-demethylation (r(2) = 0.90), in human hepatic microsomes. Although R-125528 is an atypical substrate for CYP2D6 because of its acidity, the K(m) value was 1.8 microM for the reaction in human hepatic microsomes and the CL(int) value was as high as 75.0 microl/min/mg-protein. These results suggested that the systemic clearance of R-125528 was highly dependent on CYP2D6 activity and that several studies with CYP2D6 including drug-drug interaction and polymorphism sensitivity should be performed during development from the viewpoint of metabolite safety assessment. The finding that R-125528, an acidic compound devoid of basic nitrogen, was a good substrate for CYP2D6 raised a question about previously reported CYP2D6 models based on a critical electrostatic interaction with Asp(301) and/or Glu(216).
16419399	Evaluation of the DRI oxycodone immunoassay for the detection of oxycodone in urine.	We evaluated the performance of the DRI Oxycodone (DRI-Oxy) enzyme immunoassay for the detection of oxycodone and its primary metabolite, oxymorphone, in urine, by testing 1523 consecutive urine specimens collected from pain management patients. All 1523 specimens were tested with the DRI-Oxy assay at a cut-off of 100 ng/mL and then analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) for opiates, including oxycodone and oxymorphone. Approximately 29% (435) of the 1523 specimens yielded positive results by the DRI-Oxy assay. Of these 435 specimens, GC-MS confirmed the presence of oxycodone and/or oxymorphone at >100 ng/mL in 433 specimens, an agreement of 99.5%. In addition to oxycodone and/or oxymorphone, 189 of the 433 positive specimens contained other opiates including codeine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, and morphine. These other opiates were also present in 54% (590/1084) of the oxycodone negative specimens. The DRI-Oxy assay demonstrated no cross-reactivity, yielding negative results, with specimens containing concentrations of codeine, >75,000 ng/mL; hydrocodone, >75,000 ng/mL; hydromorphone, >12,000 ng/mL; and morphine, >163,000 ng/mL. From the presented study, the sensitivity of the DRI-Oxy was 0.991 and the selectivity 0.998. The DRI-Oxy assay provided a highly reliable method for the detection of oxycodone and/or oxymorphone in urine specimens.
17828532	Impact of the CYP2D6 genotype on steady-state serum concentrations of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole.	Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic drug which is metabolized by the polymorphic enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). The aim of the present study was to investigate the impact of the CYP2D6 genotype on serum concentrations of aripiprazole (ARI) and to determine the sum of ARI and the active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole (DARI) in psychiatric patients. Data on steady-state serum concentrations and the CYP2D6 genotypes of patients treated with ARI were extracted from a routine therapeutic drug monitoring database. The 62 patients included in the analysis were stratified into the following subgroups according to CYP2D6 genotype: *1/*1 (homozygous extensive metabolizers, EMs; n = 37), *1/*3-6 (heterozygous extensive metabolizers, HEMs; n = 17) and *3-6/*3-6 (poor metabolizers, PMs; n = 8). Dose-adjusted serum concentrations (C/D ratios) of ARI and ARI + DARI were compared between the subgroups. The median serum concentration of ARI was 1.7-fold higher in PMs than in EMs (45.5 vs. 26.3 nM/mg, p < 0.01). The observed serum concentration of the active sum of ARI + DARI was 1.5-fold higher in PMs than in EMs (53.9 vs. 37.0 nM/mg, p < 0.05). Numerical differences in serum concentrations between HEMs and EMs were less pronounced, but statistically significant for both ARI (p < 0.05) and ARI + DARI (p < 0.05). The present study demonstrates that serum concentrations of both ARI and the active sum of ARI + DARI in psychiatric patients were significantly affected by CYP2D6 genotype. The observed differences in median C/D ratios indicate that PMs typically need 30-40% lower doses to achieve a similar steady-state serum concentration as EMs.
18839174	A dose finding and pharmacokinetic study of capecitabine in combination with oxaliplatin and irinotecan in metastatic colorectal cancer.	The GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen demonstrated higher activity and efficacy than FOLFIRI in metastatic colorectal cancer patients. The aim of this study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of capecitabine, in substitution of 5-fluorouracil, combined with oxaliplatin and irinotecan and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of the drugs. We treated 15 patients with escalating doses of capecitabine (from day 1 to 7) and fixed doses of oxaliplatin (85 mg/m(2)) plus irinotecan (165 mg/m(2)) (both administered on day 1), repeated every 2 weeks. Pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on plasma samples collected at the first cycle of treatment. The maximum tolerated dose of capecitabine resulted 2,000 mg/m(2)/day, with diarrhea being the only dose-limiting toxicity. Large interpatient variability in the pharmacokinetic parameters of investigated drugs was observed. Results in terms of activity are promising. At the maximum tolerated dose of capecitabine of 2,000 mg/m(2)/day the combination is feasible with promising activity and deserves further investigations.
21984222	Pharmacokinetic drug interaction between AEE788 and RAD001 causing thrombocytopenia in patients with glioblastoma.	Treating glioblastoma through the simultaneous inhibition of multiple transduction pathways may prove more effective than single-pathway inhibition. We evaluated the safety, biologic activity, and pharmacokinetic profile of oral AEE788, a selective inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), plus oral RAD001, a mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor, in glioblastoma patients. This phase IB/II, open-label, multicenter, 2-arm, dose-escalation study enrolled adult glioblastoma patients at first or second recurrence/relapse. Primary objective was to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of AEE788 combined with RAD001. Secondary objectives included determining the safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and antitumor activity of the combination. Sixteen patients were enrolled (AEE788 200mg/day + RAD001 5mg/day, 2 patients; AEE788 150mg/day + RAD001 5mg every other day [qod], 14); all patients discontinued the study most commonly because of disease progression. Four patients experienced DLT (AEE788 200mg/day + RAD001 5mg/day, 1 patient; AEE788 150mg/day + RAD001 5mg qod, 3). Both patients receiving AEE788 (200mg/day) plus RAD001 (5mg/day) experienced clinically significant thrombocytopenia requiring a dose reduction/interruption. AEE788 appeared to inhibit the metabolism of RAD001. The study was terminated prematurely before an MTD was determined because of safety findings in other studies evaluating AEE788 monotherapy. The coadministration of AEE788 and RAD001 in glioblastoma patients caused a clinically significant thrombocytopenia and a higher-than-expected RAD001 area under the curve concentration when dosed at 200 and 5mg/day, respectively. After a dose reduction to AEE788 (150mg/day) and RAD001 (5mg qod), the combination appeared to be better tolerated.
17460028	Identification of metabolites of 4-nonylphenol isomer 4-(3',6'-dimethyl-3'-heptyl) phenol by rat and human liver microsomes.	Nonylphenol (NP) has been widely used for more than 50 years in the synthesis of NP ethoxylates, which are important nonionic surfactants. NP is considered an endocrine disruptor based on in vitro and in vivo animal studies. However, the toxic effects of NP in humans are unknown. Information regarding the metabolic fate of 4-t-nonylphenol (4-tNP), a mixture of commercial NP branched isomers, in mammalian species is limited. This information is critical for the identification of adequate biomarkers of exposure to NP that could be used for exposure and risk assessment. We identified metabolites of one 4-tNP isomer, namely, 4-(3',6'-dimethyl-3'-heptyl) phenol (P363-NP), using rat and human liver microsomes. The P363-NP metabolites were extracted by on-line solid-phase extraction and then separated and detected using high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Using the genuine standard, we unambiguously identified 4-(3',6'-dimethyl-3'-heptyl) catechol (P363-NC) as the main P363-NP metabolite when using human liver microsomes. Based on their chromatographic behavior and mass spectral fragmentation patterns, several other metabolites were tentatively identified, including a hydroxylated P363-NP with the alcohol functional group on the branched alkyl chain and its oxidative metabolite, a catechol with a hydroxylated alkyl side chain. Furthermore, the metabolite profile of P363-NP using rat and human enzymes was compared. Our findings suggest that P363-NC could be used as a biomarker to assess exposure to 4-tNP, although additional research to evaluate its suitability as a biomarker is warranted.
17576805	Characterization of diuron N-demethylation by mammalian hepatic microsomes and cDNA-expressed human cytochrome P450 enzymes.	Diuron, a widely used herbicide and antifouling biocide, has been shown to persist in the environment and contaminate drinking water. It has been characterized as a "known/likely" human carcinogen. Whereas its environmental transformation and toxicity have been extensively examined, its metabolic characteristics in mammalian livers have not been reported. This study was designed to investigate diuron biotransformation and disposition because metabolic routes, metabolizing enzymes, interactions, interspecies differences, and interindividual variability are important for risk assessment purposes. The only metabolic pathway detected by liquid chromatography/mass spectometry in human liver homogenates and seven types of mammalian liver microsomes including human was demethylation at the terminal nitrogen atom. No other phase I or phase II metabolites were observed. The rank order of N-demethyldiuron formation in liver microsomes based on intrinsic clearance (V(max)/K(m)) was dog > monkey > rabbit > mouse > human > minipig > rat. All tested recombinant human cytochrome P450s (P450s) catalyzed diuron N-demethylation and the highest activities were possessed by CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6. Relative contributions of human CYP1A2, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 to hepatic diuron N-demethylation, based on average abundances of P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes, were approximately 60, 14, and 13%, respectively. Diuron inhibited relatively potently only CYP1A1/2 (IC(50) 4 microM). With human-derived and quantitative chemical-specific data, the uncertainty factors for animal to human differences and for human variability in toxicokinetics were within the range of the toxicokinetics default uncertainty/safety factors for chemical risk assessment.
6838653	Effects of erythromycin on hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes in humans.	In rats, erythromycin has been shown to induce microsomal enzymes and to promote its own transformation into a metabolite which forms an inactive complex with reduced cytochrome P-450. To determine whether similar effects also occur in humans, we studied hepatic microsomal enzymes from six untreated patients and six patients treated with erythromycin propionate, 2 g per os daily for 7 days. In the treated patients, NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity was increased; the total cytochrome P-450 concn was also increased but part of the total cytochrome P-450 was complexed by an erythromycin metabolite. The concn of uncomplexed (active) cytochrome P-450 was not significantly modified and the activity of hexobarbital hydroxylase remained unchanged. We also measured the clearance of antipyrine in six other patients; this clearance was not significantly decreased when measured again on the seventh day of the erythromycin propionate treatment. We conclude that the administration of erythromycin propionate induces microsomal enzymes and results in the formation of an inactive cytochrome P-450-metabolite complex in humans. However, the concn of uncomplexed (active) cytochrome P-450 and tests for in vitro and in vivo drug metabolism were not significantly modified.
15742978	Genetic polymorphisms of cytochrome P450 2C9 causing reduced phenprocoumon (S)-7-hydroxylation in vitro and in vivo.	The effect of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 polymorphisms on the stereoselective biotransformation of the oral anticoagulant phenprocoumon (PPC) to inactive, monohydroxylated metabolites was studied in vitro and in vivo. In human liver microsomes, the (S)-7-hydroxylation--being the major metabolic pathway--was significantly compromised in a gene-dose-dependent manner in samples expressing the CYP2C9*2 or CYP2C9*3 allele. The CYP2C9*3/*3 genotype corresponded to an almost fourfold lower (S)-7-hydroxylation rate than CYP2C9*1/*1 (wild-type). The intrinsic clearance of human recombinant CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 for the (S)-7-hydroxylation was 28.9 and 50.9% lower than of CYP2C9*1, respectively. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of PPC metabolites after oral intake of 12 mg racemic PPC was significantly lower in volunteers expressing the CYP2C9*2 or CYP2C9*3 allele. Increasing plasma AUC metabolic ratios (parent compound/metabolite) in CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 variant allele carriers were found for each hydroxylation reaction and the CYP2C9*3/*3 genotype corresponded to an about 10-fold higher metabolic ratio of PPC (S)-7-hydroxylation relative to CYP2C9*1/*1. CYP2C9 polymorphisms cause a markedly compromised PPC (S)-7-hydroxylation. However, PPC metabolism appears overall less influenced by CYP2C9 genotype compared with other oral anticoagulants and it may thus be a valuable alternative for therapeutic anticoagulation of patients expressing CYP2C9 variant alleles.
17941688	Incorporation of the hydrophobic probe N-t-BOC-L-tyrosine tert-butyl ester to red blood cell membranes to study peroxynitrite-dependent reactions.	We have previously demonstrated that red blood cells (RBC) are an important sink of intravascularly generated peroxynitrite even in the presence of physiological concentrations of CO2 or other plasmatic biotargets. Once inside erythrocytes, peroxynitrite reacts fast with oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb; k2=2 x 10(4) M(-1) s(-1) at 37 degrees C and pH 7.4) and isomerizes to nitrate. Herein, we investigated whether, in spite of the fast diffusion and consumption of extracellularly added peroxynitrite by intraerythrocytic oxyHb, peroxynitrite-dependent radical processes could occur at the RBC membrane, focusing on tyrosine nitration. For this purpose, the hydrophobic tyrosine analogue N-t-BOC-L-tyrosine tert-butyl ester (BTBE) was successfully incorporated for the first time to a biological membrane, that is, RBC membrane, with incorporation yields approximately 1-3 x 10(7) molecules per RBC. The membrane integrity of BTBE-containing RBC was not significantly altered after BTBE incorporation as demonstrated by permeability studies. The probe was then used to study peroxynitrite-dependent reactions. The addition of peroxynitrite to BTBE-containing RBC suspensions resulted in BTBE nitration and dimerization to 3-nitro-BTBE and 3,3'-di-BTBE, respectively, indicative of peroxynitrite-derived radicals reactions in the membrane. Peroxynitrite addition to RBC also caused tyrosine nitration of membrane-associated proteins. The free radical nature of the process was also shown by the detection of protein-derived radicals by DMPO-immunospin trapping. While the presence of extracellular CO2 was potently inhibitory of intracellular oxyHb oxidation, membrane protein and BTBE nitration by peroxynitrite at <or=500 microM were, on the other hand, generally enhanced, supporting the participation of peroxynitrite-derived radicals (i.e., nitrogen dioxide and carbonate radicals) in the nitration process. Studies with erythrocyte ghosts having different contents of re-encapsulated oxyHb confirmed the role of intracellular oxyHb as a sink of nitrating species, as BTBE nitration and dimerization decreased with the increase in hemoglobin concentration. In summary, with the aid of a hydrophobic tyrosine analogue, our results show that peroxynitrite can mediate free radical-dependent nitration and dimerization processes in the RBC membrane, in spite of the significant peroxynitrite scavenging activity of oxyHb inside the RBC.
2403377	Gold(I) efflux from auranofin-treated red blood cells. Evidence for a glutathione-gold-albumin metabolite.	The efflux of gold from red blood cells (RBCs) exposed to 10-100 microM auranofin [the second generation chrysotherapy agent, triethylphosphine-(2,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-1-beta-D-glucopyranosato -S-)gold(I)] was studied. RBCs in whole blood were allowed to accumulate gold, and then were placed in fresh plasma or buffered saline solution. In plasma, the kinetics of efflux were first order in gold with an apparent rate constant of 0.81 +/- 0.18 hr-1. Serum albumin, in plasma or added to a buffered solution, shifted the equilibrium between intra- and extracellular gold in favor of the latter (compared to saline solution). [14C]Glutathione, generated by in situ labeling, also effluxed and associated with the albumin and gold, providing the first direct evidence that the albumin-gold-glutathione complex (AlbSAuSG) may be a circulating metabolite of auranofin formed after both of the original ligands of auranofin are displaced.
18840368	Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of midodrine on blood pressure, the autonomic nervous system, and plasma natriuretic peptides: a prospective, randomized, single-blind, two-period, crossover, placebo-controlled study.	Midodrine is an alpha-agonist prodrug of desglymidodrine (DGM) that has been reported to be of clinical benefit in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope. Its effects may be mediated not only by its hypertensive properties but also by its neurohumoral influences independent of blood pressure (BP). The present study aimed to simultaneously characterize the effects of midodrine on BP, plasma catecholamines, plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), and power spectral analysis of heart rate (HR) in healthy volunteers. This was a prospective, randomized, single-blind, 2-period, crossover study in which a single, oral, 5-mg dose of midodrine was compared with placebo. The washout period between midodrine and placebo was 1 week. The study parameters included plasma DGM (as measured by high-performance liquid chromatography [HPLC]); systolic and diastolic BP (as measured with an oscillometric monitor); HR; plasma catecholamines (measured by HPLC); plasma ANP, also known as venous return (measured by a radio-immunoassay); and low- and high-frequency HR variation (calculated from computerized 5-minute electrocardiographic recordings). All study parameters were measured simultaneously 12 times just before and over a period of 8 hours after drug administration. Fifteen healthy nonsmoking male subjects (14 white, 1 black; mean [SD] age, 28.6 [4.7] years; weight, 74.5 [16.4] kg; seated BP, 109.9 [9.0]/73.6 [9.5] mm Hg; seated HR, 63.8 [8.4] bpm) were randomized. No significant effects of midodrine on BP were observed. At Cmax, midodrine decreased norepinephrine from 188.4 (30.6) to 162.5 (29.8) pg/mL (P = 0.011) and HR from 57.2 (7.3) to 54.9 (6.6) bpm (P = 0.022). A significant correlation was found between DGM concentration and HR ( varphi -0.61; P = 0.014). A DGM-related increase in plasma ANP (+29.6 [90.0] fmoL/mL) was observed. This study in healthy male volunteers found that midodrine has sympatholytic influences that are independent of BP but related to augmented venous return.
7769792	A labetalol metabolite with analytical characteristics resembling amphetamines.	A metabolite of labetalol that is responsible for previous reports of false-positive assays for amphetamines by thin-layer chromatography and immunoassay has been identified. The compound, 3-amino-1-phenylbutane (APB), an oxidative metabolite of labetalol, was initially identified in a patient's urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and confirmed by analysis of the pure material. Gas chromatography showed a single major peak with relative retention time indistinguishable from that of methamphetamine, both underivatized and as the pentafluoropropionyl derivative. By classical thin-layer chromatography, APB migrated identically to methamphetamine but showed ninhydrin color development characteristic of amphetamine. APB was shown to cross-react approximately 2% with the Abbott TDx amphetamine/methamphetamine II kit, 10% with the Syva EMIT d.a.u. polyclonal amphetamine class kit, and 3% with the Syva EMIT d.a.u. monoclonal amphetamine kit. This degree of cross-reactivity is sufficient to cause false-positive immunoassays when cutoffs of 300 ng/mL are used.
22197707	Urinary phthalate monoesters concentration in couples with infertility problems.	The widespread use of phthalates results in human exposure: phthalates are rapidly metabolized to their respective monoesters and other oxidative products, which are glucuronidated and excreted through the urine and feces. Several in vivo studies showed that some phthalates, in particular diethyl-hexyl phthalate (DEHP), diethyl phthalate (DEP), di(n-butyl)phthalate (DnBP) and n-butylbenzylphthalate (BBzP), are able to interact with the human endocrine system, interfering with the reproduction ability. In this study, 56 couples were recruited from a centre of assisted reproduction. Spot urine samples were collected and five urinary metabolites of the above phthalates were determined using an HPLC/MS/MS analytical method with isotopic dilution. The results were compared with those of 56 couples of parents of one or more children and the statistical analysis revealed a significant difference between the two groups in terms of urinary concentrations of phthalates metabolites. A further step will be the correlation of these results with information on the life styles and working conditions collected through a specifically designed questionnaire.
6734304	Rectal bioavailability of bacampicillin hydrochloride in man as determined by reversed-phase liquid chromatography.	The relative bioavailability of bacampicillin hydrochloride, a pro-drug of ampicillin, was compared after rectal and oral administration. Bacampicillin was administered rectally as a microenema . The oral formulation was an aqueous microcapsule suspension. They were given as single doses of 400 mg to 12 healthy volunteers after overnight fasting using a randomized cross-over design. Ampicillin and bacampicillin were determined in plasma and blood, respectively, using HPLC. Bacampicillin was rapidly absorbed from the rectum but to a much smaller degree compared to the oral dose. The median t-max was 0.5 and 0.75 h after the rectal and oral doses, respectively. The mean (SD) Cp-max was 1.2 (0.33) mg/l after rectal and 4.8 (0.98) mg/l after oral administration, respectively. Blood concentrations of bacampicillin were extremely low or undetectable with no indication of differences between the two modes of administration. The 95% confidence limits for the relative bioavailability of the microenema were 22.4-39.2 and 22.5-40.4% based on area under the plasma concentration time curve and urinary recovery, respectively. The rectal dose was followed by distress, diarrhea or pain, in 7 subjects. There were no adverse reactions after the oral dose. Bacampicillin was unaffected by beta-lactamases produced by intestinal bacteria.
2336835	The metabolic fate of 14C-ximoprofen in rats, baboons and humans.	1. The metabolic fate of 14C-ximoprofen was compared in rat (2 mg/kg), baboon (2 mg/kg) and human (approx. 0.4 mg/kg). An oral dose was well absorbed in all three species as indicated by urinary excretion of 80%, 86% and 94% dose respectively in 5 days: excreted in the faeces were 14%, 2% and 2% dose respectively. 2. Total 14C in plasma reached peak concentrations at 1-1.5 h in humans and earlier in animals. In humans, plasma 14C was initially associated mainly with unchanged drug which declined with a half-life of about 2 h (plasma 14C t1/2 about 8 h; cf. about 6 h in animals). 3. Tissue 14C concentrations in rats were generally similar to those in baboons at 1 h after dosing, decreasing substantially at later times. The distribution of 14C was consistent with that of a compound readily eliminated. 4. The major biotransformation products of ximoprofen were formed by hydrolysis to the keto-analogue followed by reduction to the hydroxy-analogue and conjugation of these two compounds. The same major metabolites were detected in urine of rat, baboon and humans but there was (a) complete biotransformation of ximoprofen in the rat, (b) an apparent difference in the nature of the conjugated component(s) in rat urine and those in baboon and human urine, (c) only one hydroxy-analogue detected in human urine but two such compounds in animal urine as indicated by mass spectrometry. 5. In human plasma at peak concentrations, the relative importance of circulating components was ximoprofen greater than keto-analogue greater than hydroxy-analogue, whereas in the plasma of the animal species this order was reversed, consistent with the more extensive biotransformation of ximoprofen observed in rat or baboon.
19075040	Mechanism of ethylbenzene-induced mouse-specific lung tumor: metabolism of ethylbenzene by rat, mouse, and human liver and lung microsomes.	This study was conducted to determine species differences in the metabolism of ethylbenzene (EB) in liver and lung. EB (0.22-7.0mM) was incubated with mouse, rat and human liver and lung microsomes and the formation of 1-phenylethanol (1PE), acetophenone (AcPh), 2-ethylphenol (2EP), 4-ethylphenol (4EP), 2,5-ethylquinone, and 3,4-ethylquinone were measured. Reactive metabolites (2,5-dihydroxyethylbenzene-GSH [2EP-GSH] and 3,4-dihydroxyethylbenzene-GSH [4EP-GSH]) were monitored via glutathione (GSH) trapping technique. None of the metabolites were formed at detectable levels in incubations with human lung microsomes. Percent conversion of EB to 1PE ranged from 1% (rat lung; 7.0mM EB) to 58% (mouse lung; 0.22 mM EB). More 1PE was formed in mouse lung than in mouse liver microsomes, although formation of 1PE by rat liver and lung microsomes was similar. Metabolism of EB to 1PE was in the order of mouse > rat > human. Formation of AcPh was roughly an order of magnitude lower than 1PE. Conversion of EB to ring-hydroxylated metabolites was much lower (0.0001% [4EP-GSH; rat lung] to 0.6% [2EP-GSH; mouse lung]); 2EP-GSH was typically 10-fold higher than 4EP-GSH. Formation of 2EP-GSH was higher by lung (highest by mouse lung) than liver microsomes and the formation of 2EP-GSH by mouse liver microsomes was higher than rat and human liver microsomes. Increasing concentrations of EB did lead to a decrease in amount of some formed metabolites. This may indicate some level of substrate- or metabolite-mediated inhibition. High concentrations of 2EP and 4EP were incubated with microsomes to further investigate their oxidation to ethylcatechol (ECat) and ethylhydroquinone (EHQ). Conversion of 2EP to EHQ ranged from 6% to 9% by liver (mouse > human > rat) and from 0.1% to 18% by lung microsomes (mouse >> rat >> human). Conversion of 4EP to ECat ranged from 2% to 4% by liver (mouse > human approximately rat) and from 0.3% to 7% by lung microsomes (mouse >> rat >> human). Although ring-oxidized metabolites accounted for a relatively small fraction of overall EB metabolism, its selective elevation in mouse lung microsomes is nonetheless consistent with the hypothesized mode of action for observed preferential toxicity of EB to the lung in this species.
7781267	Moclobemide, a substrate of CYP2C19 and an inhibitor of CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP1A2: a panel study.	The reversible monoamine oxidase A inhibitor moclobemide was given in single (300 mg) and multiple doses (600 mg/day) to 11 male and four female healthy volunteers (age range, 23 to 27) who were either poor metabolizers of S-mephenytoin (n = 7) or extensive metabolizers of S-mephenytoin (n = 8). All were extensive metabolizers of sparteine. Poor metabolizers of S-mephenytoin had lower moclobemide clearance values (median, single dose: 16.1 versus 43.2 L.hr-1; steady state: 13.4 versus 22.1 L.hr-1) and longer moclobemide half-life values (median, single dose: 4.0 versus 1.8 hours; steady state: 5.1 versus 2.7 hours) than extensive metabolizers of S-mephenytoin. The plasma levels of a metabolite formed by C-hydroxylation (Ro 12-8095) were lower in poor metabolizers of S-mephenytoin than in extensive metabolizers of S-mephenytoin. Moclobemide thus partially undergoes oxidative metabolism by way of the polymorphic CYP2C19. A combined mephenytoin, sparteine, and caffeine test performed before, during, and after multiple dosing of moclobemide showed changes in the metabolic indexes compatible with a reversible inhibition of oxidation by way of the corresponding CYP enzymes--CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP1A2--during moclobemide treatment.
18036757	An oxcarbazepine-related fatality with an overview of 26 oxcarbazepine postmortem cases.	We present an oxcarbazepine-related fatality together with an overview of 26 postmortem cases involving oxcarbazepine observed during the period 2001-2006. The fatality case concerned a 27-year-old woman with epilepsy, who was found dead in her bed. Oxcarbazepine and its active metabolite, 10-hydroxycarbazepine, were the only compounds detected. The concentrations of oxcarbazepine were as follows: femoral blood, 2.9mg/kg; muscle, 1.8mg/kg; liver, 0.9mg/kg; gastric content (300ml), 860mg/kg; and vitreous humour, not detected. The concentrations of 10-hydroxycarbazepine were as follows: femoral blood, 66mg/kg; muscle, 40mg/kg; liver, 62mg/kg; gastric content, 27mg/kg; and vitreous humour, 25mg/kg. The analyses were performed by HPLC-DAD after liquid-liquid extraction. Oxcarbazepine intoxication was regarded as a possible cause of death. For the other 26 cases, the 10-hydroxycarbazepine concentrations ranged from 2.2 to 48mg/kg with a median of 25mg/kg.
16465545	Population analysis of the pharmacokinetics and the haematological toxicity of the fluorouracil-epirubicin-cyclophosphamide regimen in breast cancer patients.	The aims of the study were (a) to characterise the pharmacokinetics (PK), including inter-individual variability (IIV) and inter-occasion variability (IOV) as well as covariate relationships and (b) to characterise the relationship between the PK and the haematological toxicity of the component drugs of the fluorouracil (5-FU)-epirubicin (EPI)-cyclophosphamide (CP) regimen in breast cancer patients. Data from 140 breast cancer patients, either within one of different studies or in routine clinical management, were included in the analyses. The patients were all treated with the fluorouracil-epirubicin-cyclophosphamide (FEC) regimen every third week for 3-12 courses, either in standard doses, i.e. 600/60/600 mg/m(2) of 5-FU, EPI and CP, respectively, or according to a dose escalation/reduction protocol (tailored dosing). PK data were available from 84 of the patients, whereas time-courses of haematological toxicity were available from 87 patients. The data analysis was carried out using mixed effects models within the NONMEM program. The PK of 5-FU, EPI and 4-hydroxy-cyclophosphamide (4-OHCP), the active metabolite of CP, were described with a one-compartment model with saturable elimination, a three-compartment linear model and a two-compartment linear model, respectively. No clinical significant correlation was found between PK across drugs. The unexplained variability in clearance was found to be less within patients, between courses (inter-occasion variability, IOV) than between patients (inter-individual variability, IIV) for EPI and 5-FU. For 4-OHCP, however, the IIV diminished by approximately 45% when significant covariates were included and the final population model predicts an IIV that is equal to IOV. Significant covariates for elimination capacity parameters were serum albumin (5-FU, EPI and 4-OHCP), creatinine clearance (5-FU), bilirubin (EPI) and body surface area (BSA) (4-OHCP). Elimination capacity of 5-FU and EPI was not related to BSA and for none of the studied drugs did body weight explain the PK variability. The time-course of haematological toxicity after treatment was well described by a semi-physiological model that assumes additive haematological toxicity between CP and EPI with negligible contribution from 5-FU. The influence of G-CSF could be incorporated into the model in a mechanistic manner as shortening the maturation time to 43% of the normal duration and increasing the mitotic activity to 269% of normal activity. The models presented describe the dose-concentration-toxicity relationships for the FEC therapy and may provide a basis for implementation and comparison of different individualisation strategies based on covariates, therapeutic drug monitoring and/or pharmacodynamic (PD) feedback. The PD model extends on previous semi-mechanistic models in that it also takes G-CSF administration into account.
3956053	Amitriptyline metabolism: association with debrisoquin hydroxylation in nonsmokers.	Eleven healthy nonsmokers with wide variation in the ability to hydroxylate debrisoquin (D) were given single oral doses of amitriptyline and nortriptyline on different occasions. The urinary D/4-hydroxy-D ratio correlated significantly (P less than 0.01) with all three parameters of amitriptyline disposition measured (total plasma clearance, clearance by demethylation, and clearance by pathways other than demethylation), with rs = -0.89, -0.78, and -0.83, respectively. In contrast, we failed to demonstrate such correlations in a previous sample of smokers. Our data suggest that there may be a common regulation of the hydroxylation of D and the oxidative metabolism of amitriptyline in nonsmokers. It is hypothesized that an additional demethylase/hydroxylase is induced in smokers that is not involved in D hydroxylation.
1287181	Single-dose kinetics of primidone in human subjects: effect of phenytoin on formation and elimination of active metabolites of primidone, phenobarbital and phenylethylmalonamide.	Effect of repetitive administration of phenytoin (PHT) on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of primidone (PRM) was investigated in 3 healthy male subjects. The peak concentration of unchanged PRM was achieved at 12 and 8 h after the administration of PRM in the absence and the presence of PHT, respectively. The elimination half-life of PRM was decreased from 19.4 +/- 2.2 (mean +/- S.E.) to 10.2 +/- 5.1 h (p < 0.05) and the total body clearance was increased from 24.6 +/- 3.1 to 45.1 +/- 5.1 ml/h/kg (p < 0.01) in the presence of PHT. No significant change was observed for the apparent volume of distribution between the two treatments. In the absence of PHT, the measurable amount (> or = 0.1 mumol/l) of phenobarbital (PB) and phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) did not appear in the serum until 5.3 and 1.3 h after the PRM administration, and the peak concentrations of PB and PEMA were achieved at 52 and 36 h, but the concentrations of both metabolites were very low (PB 1.3 mumol/l; PEMA 1.7 mumol/l). In the presence of PHT, within 0.8 and 0.5 h after the administration of PRM, the derived PB and PEMA appeared in the serum. About a 6-fold increase in the peak concentrations of both the metabolites were observed (PB 8.2 mumol/l; PEMA 11.0 mumol/l). No significant changes were observed for the elimination half-lives of both PB and PEMA in the absence and presence of PHT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
15113532	Liquid chromatographic method for the determination of lidocaine and monoethylglycine xylidide in human serum containing various concentrations of bilirubin for the assessment of liver function.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method is described for determination of lidocaine (2-(dietyloamino)-N-(2,6-dimetylofenylo) acetamid) and its metabolite, monoethylglycine xylidide (MEGX), in human serum containing various concentration of bilirubin. Lidocaine and its metabolite were extracted from human serum using dichloromethane. After separation of the layers and freezing at -32 degrees C, the organic layer was decanted and evaporated under a stream of nitrogen. The sample was dissolved in the mobile phase (12% acetonitrile in 15mM potassium dihydrogen orthophosphate, pH 3.0), and after separation on a Supelcosil LC-8-DB column, the analytes were measured by ultraviolet detection at 205nm. Trimethoprim (TMP) was used as the internal standard. The recovery of the examined analytes ranged from 95.7 to 97.9% for lidocaine and from 98.0 to 99.9% for MEGX. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was established at 200microg/l for lidocaine and at 10microg/l for MEGX. The choice of suitable conditions for chromatographic separation of lidocaine and its metabolite MEGX allowed the elimination of the influence of endogenous bilirubin on the result of analysis.
15777097	Formation of a mutagenic heterocyclic aromatic amine from creatinine in urine of meat eaters and vegetarians.	Liquid chromatography electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (MS) with a triple quadrupole MS was used to identify known and novel heterocyclic aromatic amines (HAAs) in human urine. The identities of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (8-MeIQx) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) were confirmed by their product ion spectra. The constant neutral loss scan mode was employed to probe for other analytes in urine that display the transition [M+H]+-->[M+H-CH3*]+*, which is common to HAAs containing an N-methylimidazo moiety, and led to the detection of a previously unreported isomer of 8-MeIQx [Holland, R., et al. (2004) Chem. Res. Toxicol. 17, 1121-1136]. We now report the identification of another novel HAA, 2-amino-1-methylimidazo[4,5-b]quinoline (IQ[4,5-b]), an isomer of the powerful animal carcinogen 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ). The amounts of IQ[4,5-b] measured in the urine of human volunteers who consumed grilled beef ranged from 15 to 135% of the ingested dose, while the amounts of 8-MeIQx and PhIP excreted in urine were on average <2% of the ingested dose. Base treatment of urine at 70 degrees C increased the concentrations of 8-MeIQx and PhIP by as much as 6-fold, indicating the presence of phase II conjugates; however, the amount of IQ[4,5-b] increased by more than 100-fold. IQ[4,5-b] was also detected in the urine of vegetarians following base hydrolysis. The formation of IQ[4,5-b], but not IQ, 8-MeIQx, or PhIP, also occurred in urine incubated at 37 degrees C. Creatinine and 2-aminobenzaldehyde are likely precursors of IQ[4,5-b]. The detection of IQ[4,5-b] in the urine of both meat eaters and vegetarians suggests that this HAA may be present in nonmeat staples or that IQ[4,5-b] formation may occur endogenously within the urinary bladder or other biological fluids.
8870979	Inhibition of N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylase in rat and human liver microsomes by isothiocyanates and their glutathione, L-cysteine, and N-acetyl-L-cysteine conjugates.	Natural and synthetic isothiocyanates and their conjugates were examined for their inhibitory effects toward rat and human liver microsomal N-dimethylnitrosoamine demethylase (NDMAd) activity using a radiometric NDMAd assay. Substrate concentrations of 30 and 60 microM were used to probe the activity of cytochrome P4502E1 isozyme through the alpha-hydroxylation of NDMA. It was found that alkyl isothiocyanates such as sulforaphane and allyl isothiocyanate displayed very weak inhibition, whereas the arylalkyl isothiocyanates such as benzyl and phenethyl isothiocyanate showed significant inhibition toward rat liver NDMAd activity with IC50 values of 9.0 and 8.3 microM, respectively. More interestingly, glutathione conjugates of benzyl, phenethyl, and 6-phenylhexyl isothiocyanates all inhibited NDMAd at the comparable concentrations. In the phenethyl isothiocyanate conjugates series, there exist marked differences in their inhibitory activity; i.e., its conjugates with L-cysteine (IC50 = 4.3 microM) and with glutathione (IC50 = 4.0 microM) are more potent than its conjugate of N-acetylcysteine (IC50 = 24.0 microM). The same trend was also observed for the human liver microsomal NDMAd activity. The half-lives of these conjugates were determined in the presence of other free thiols from L-cysteine or glutathione using an HPLC system. It was shown that isothiocyanates are released from their conjugates and react with the free thiols present in the solution. The longer half-life of N-acetylcysteine conjugate of phenethyl isothiocyanate as compared to the other conjugates is consistent with its lower inhibitory activity. The inhibition of NDMAd, and therefore cytochrome P4502E1, by isothiocyanate conjugates is most likely due to the action of the free isothiocyanates released from the conjugates. Since cytochrome P4502E1 and other isozymes play important roles in the activation of the tobacco-specific nitrosoamines, these results provide a basis for investigating the potential of isothiocyanate conjugates as chemopreventive agents.
17602901	Detection and quantification of aripiprazole and its metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in blood samples of psychiatric patients.	Aripiprazole is a novel antipsychotic drug for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorders. In this study, a new method using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was developed and validated for the detection of aripiprazole and its main metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, in plasma. Blood samples from seven psychiatric patients treated with aripiprazole (10-20 mg/day) underwent a solid-phase extraction (SPE) and N-methyl-N-trimethylsilytrifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) derivatization. The characteristic ions of mass spectra for aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole were m/z 306, 292, 218 and 304, 290, 218, respectively. Extraction recoveries from this method were 75.4% (n=5) for aripiprazole and 102.3% (n=5) for dehydroaripiprazole. The calibration curves of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole were linear from 16 to 500 ng/ml (r(2)=0.999) and 8 to 250 ng/ml (r(2)=0.999), respectively. The respective limits of quantification (LOQs) for aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole evaluated in 0.5 ml of serum were 14.4 ng/ml and 6.9 ng/ml. Intra-assay and interassay precision and accuracy were within acceptable ranges. In this study, we also found that the mean trough concentrations in plasma at steady-state were 128.9 microg/l for aripiprazole and 30.1 microg/l for dehydroaripiprazole.
15455178	Absorption and metabolism of genistein and its five isoflavone analogs in the human intestinal Caco-2 model.	The purposes of this study were to determine the effect of structural change on the intestinal disposition of isoflavones and to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for transport of phase II isoflavone conjugates. Transport and metabolism of six isoflavones (i.e., genistein, daidzein, glycitein, formononetin, biochanin A, and prunetin) were studied in the human intestinal Caco-2 model and mature Caco-2 cell lysate. Glucuronides were the main metabolites in intact Caco-2 cells for all isoflavones except prunetin, which was mainly sulfated. In addition, the 7-hydroxy group was the main site for glucuronidation whereas the 4'-hydroxy group was only one of the possible sites for sulfation. Glucuronidated isoflavones (except biochanin A) were preferably excreted to the basolateral side, whereas sulfated metabolites (except genistein and glycitein) were mainly excreted into the apical side. Polarized excretion of most isoflavone conjugates was inhibited by the multidrug resistance-related protein (MRP) inhibitor leukotriene C(4) (0.1 micro M) and the organic anion transporter (OAT) inhibitor estrone sulfate (10 micro M). When formation and excretion rates of isoflavones were determined simultaneously, the results showed that formation served as the rate-limiting step for all isoflavone conjugates (both glucuronides and sulfates) except for genistein glucuronide, which had comparable excretion and formation rates. In conclusion, the intestinal disposition of isoflavones was structurally dependent, polarized, and mediated by MRP and OAT. Formation generally served as the rate-limiting step in the cellular excretion of conjugated isoflavones in the Caco-2 cell culture model.
8611954	Determination of cyclophosphamide metabolites by gas chromatography and thermionic specific detection. Interindividual differences in hepatic biotransformation of cyclophosphamide in man in vitro.	Sensitive methods for the determination of the cyclophosphamide metabolites nornitrogen mustard, 4-ketocyclophosphamide and carboxyphosphamide are presented. After liquid-liquid extraction and derivatization, the metabolites are determined by gas chromatography and thermionic specific detection. The methods were used to study the in vitro biotransformation of cyclophosphamide with S-9 liver fractions of human donors. The results show large interindividual differences in the formation of nornitrogen mustard and carboxyphosphamide. 4-Ketocyclophosphamide was not detected.
1874857	High-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection of buprenorphine and its major metabolite in urine.	A procedure was developed for the simultaneous determination of buprenorphine and its major metabolite. N-desalkylbuprenorphine, by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. The detection limit is about 100 pg/ml for the major metabolite and 250 pg/ml for buprenorphine.
18840518	Differences in simulated liver concentrations of toxic coumarin metabolites in rats and different human populations evaluated through physiologically based biokinetic (PBBK) modeling.	Coumarin is bioactivated via 3,4-epoxidation resulting in formation of the hepatotoxic o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (oHPA) and detoxified by cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) hydroxylation leading to 7-hydroxycoumarin. The present study defines physiologically based biokinetic (PBBK) models to predict liver levels of the toxic oHPA metabolite of coumarin in rats and in human subjects with normal or deficient CYP2A6 catalyzed coumarin 7-hydroxylation. The results reveal that the predicted maximum tissue concentration (C(max)) of oHPA in the liver of wild type human subjects and of subjects deficient in CYP2A6 catalyzed 7-hydroxylation are, respectively, three and one order of magnitude lower than the values predicted for rat liver. Another difference between CYP2A6 deficient and wild type human subjects is a 500-fold difference in the area under the curve 0-24h (AUC(0-24h)) for the time-dependent oHPA liver concentration pointing at a relative higher percentage of the original dose converted in time through this pathway when CYP2A6 is deficient. For wild type human subjects and the subjects with completely deficient coumarin 7-hydroxylation the AUC(0-24h) values for oHPA in the liver are, respectively, three and one order of magnitude lower than that for rat liver. Even when 7-hydroxylation is deficient, the chances on formation of the hepatotoxic oHPA metabolite will be significantly lower in the liver of humans than those expected in the liver of rats when exposed to a similar dose on a body-weight basis. This conclusion should be taken into account when extrapolating data from experimental studies in sensitive animals, i.e., rats, to the general human population.
19601875	Inhibitory properties of trapping agents: glutathione, potassium cyanide, and methoxylamine, against major human cytochrome p450 isoforms.	In the early stages of drug discovery, the formation of reactive metabolites is often assessed by co-incubating the drug in liver microsomes with a trapping agent in the presence of NADPH. Our group assessed the capability of commonly used trapping agents to reversibly inhibit major cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. Glutathione and cyanide did not inhibit the enzymes at concentrations up to 10 mM; however methoxylamine did show inhibition, with IC(50) values of 0.53 mM for CYP1A2, 4.12 mM for CYP2C9, 2.04 mM for CYP2C19, 9.72 mM for CYP2D6, and 1.26 and >10 mM for CYP3A4/5 (for testosterone and midazolam, respectively, as substrates).
19000365	Salbutamol relative lung and systemic bioavailability of large and small spacers.	Differences between the size and shape of spacers may affect the emitted dose and provide different effects when interchanged during routine use. Using a urinary pharmacokinetic method we have measured the relative lung and systemic bioavailability from urinary salbutamol excretion 30 min (USAL0.5) and 24 h (USAL24), respectively, after the inhalation of two 100-microg doses from a Ventolin Evohaler when used alone (MDI) and when attached to the Volumatic (VOL) or the Aerochamber Plus (AERO) spacers. The in-vitro properties of the emitted dose were determined. The mean (s.d.) USAL0.5 values following MDI, VOL and AERO (n = 13 volunteers) were 5.7 (1.9), 16.4 (8.2) and 14.8 (7.4) microg, respectively. VOL and AERO were significantly greater (P < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively) than MDI. Comparison of VOL and AERO was similar with a mean ratio (90% confidence interval) of 108.2 (84.5, 138.6)%. USAL24 values between the three inhalation methods were similar. The values for the mean (s.d.) fine particle dose of two 100-microg doses emitted from MDI, VOL and AERO were 83.0 (6.8), 83.6 (4.6) and 73.6 (2.9) microg and the mass median aerodynamic diameters were 2.7 (0.03), 2.8 (0.07) and 2.9 (0.10) mum, respectively. The results showed that during routine use the Volumatic and the Aerochamber Plus spacers should provide similar lung and systemic delivery when attached to a Ventolin Evohaler.
18563956	Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of intramuscular, oral and intravenous aripiprazole in healthy subjects and in patients with schizophrenia.	Patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder who are experiencing acute behavioural emergencies often require intramuscular injection of antipsychotics for rapid symptom resolution. The efficacy and tolerability of intramuscular aripiprazole injection has been established in agitated inpatients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder. The main objective of the two clinical pharmacology studies reported here was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole after intramuscular dosing in healthy subjects and in patients with schizophrenia, and after intravenous and oral dosing in healthy subjects. Study 1 was an open-label, randomized, three-treatment crossover study in healthy subjects (n = 18) to assess the bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of intramuscular aripiprazole 5 mg and oral aripiprazole 5 mg relative to intravenous aripiprazole 2 mg. Study 2 was an open-label, nonrandomized, escalating-dose study in patients with schizophrenia (n = 32) to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of intramuscular aripiprazole across a range of doses (from 1 mg to 45 mg). The noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameters for plasma concentrations of aripiprazole and its active metabolite dehydro-aripiprazole were determined. Safety and tolerability data are also summarized. In study 1, the geometric mean values for the absolute bioavailability of aripiprazole following oral and intramuscular administration were 0.85 and 0.98, respectively. Intramuscular aripiprazole demonstrated more rapid attainment of plasma aripiprazole concentrations than oral aripiprazole (78% and 5% of peak plasma concentration [C(max)] values at 0.5 hours postdose, respectively). The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) in the first 2 hours was 90% higher after intramuscular administration than after oral administration. For dehydro-aripiprazole, the AUC over the collection interval values were higher, the times to reach the C(max) values were later and the C(max) values were similar for the intramuscular and oral formulations. In study 2, the proportionality of the C(max) and AUC to doses ranging from 1 mg to 45 mg suggests a linear pharmacokinetic profile for intramuscular aripiprazole. More rapid absorption was observed following intramuscular aripiprazole injection than following oral dosing. These results support the recently reported efficacy of intramuscular aripiprazole for managing agitation in patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder.
1279278	Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of benazepril in hypertensive patients with normal and impaired renal function.	The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of benazepril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, were investigated after administration of a single oral 5-mg dose and 7 more doses on consecutive days to hypertensive patients with normal renal function (NRF) and those with impaired renal function (IRF). The antihypertensive effect of benazepril was observed as early as 30 min after a single dose, and those effects during consecutive dosing were also sustained for 24 h with a lesser diurnal variation in blood pressure (BP). The time to peak (Tmax) and the apparent elimination half-life (t1/2) for benazepril were 0.6-0.7 h and 0.4-0.8 h, respectively. Tmax for its diacid was 1.5-2.4 h in both groups. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve to 24 h (AUC0-24h) for the diacid was significantly greater in the IRF group than in the NRF group. After consecutive dosing of benazepril, AUC0-24h and plasma peak level (Cmax) were significantly increased in the IRF group. Serum ACE activity was markedly suppressed for 24 h after administration, and the inhibition was closely related to plasma diacid levels. A significant inverse correlation was observed between creatinine clearance and the AUC for the diacid. These results suggest that benazepril is rapidly bioactivated to diacid and exhibits rapid onset and long-lasting antihypertensive effects. Dosage reduction might be required to minimize unnecessary drug accumulation in patients with severe IRF.
22019630	Species-dependent and receptor-selective action of bilobalide on the function of constitutive androstane receptor and pregnane X receptor.	Bilobalide is a naturally occurring sesquiterpene trilactone with therapeutic potential in the management of ischemia and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we investigated the effect of bilobalide on the activity of rat constitutive androstane receptor (rCAR) and rat pregnane X receptor (rPXR) and compared that with human CAR (hCAR) and human PXR (hPXR). Bilobalide activated rCAR in a luciferase reporter gene assay and increased rCAR target gene expression in cultured rat hepatocytes, as determined by the CYP2B1 mRNA and CYP2B enzyme activity (benzyloxyresorufin O-dealkylation) assays. This increase in hepatocyte CYP2B1 expression by bilobalide was not accompanied by a corresponding increase in rCAR mRNA level. In contrast to the activation of rCAR, the activity of rPXR, hCAR, and hPXR was not influenced by this chemical in cell-based reporter gene assays. Consistent with these results, bilobalide did not alter rPXR, hCAR, or hPXR target gene expression in rat or human hepatocytes, as evaluated by the CYP3A23, CYP2B6, CYP3A4 mRNA assays and the CYP3A (testosterone 6-hydroxylation) and CYP2B6 (bupropion hydroxylation) enzyme activity assays. Bilobalide was not an antagonist of rPXR, hCAR, or hPXR, as suggested by the finding that it did not attenuate rPXR activation by pregnenolone 16-carbonitrile, hCAR activation by 6-(4-chlorophenyl)imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]thiazole-5-carbaldehyde O-(3,4-dichlorobenzyl)oxime, or hPXR activation by rifampicin in reporter gene assays. In conclusion, bilobalide is an activator of rCAR, whereas it is not a ligand of rPXR, hCAR, or hPXR. Likewise, it is an inducer of rat CYP2B1, but not of rat CYP3A23, human CYP2B6, or human CYP3A4.
14760509	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of the farnesyltransferase inhibitor R115777 in combination with irinotecan in patients with advanced cancer.	R115777 is a selective, nonpeptidomimetic inhibitor of farnesyltransferase (FTase), an enzyme responsible for the post-translational modification of several proteins, including Ras. Given the high frequency of K-Ras mutations in malignancies commonly treated with irinotecan, the broad preclinical antiproliferative activity of R115777 and its largely non-overlapping toxicity profile with irinotecan, this phase I study of the combination of R115777 and irinotecan in patients with advanced cancer was undertaken. Enrolled onto the study were 14 patients (eight male, six female; median age 63 years, range 48-72 years). Five patients had an ECOG performance status (PS) of 0, eight patients PS 1, and one patient PS 2. The patients were treated with R115777 orally twice daily for 28 days and irinotecan 100 mg/m(2) as an intravenous infusion on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each 42-day cycle. Seven patients received R115777 100 mg twice daily and seven received R115777 200 mg twice daily. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was experienced by one of seven patients treated with R115777 100 mg (grade 3 fatigue), and two of seven patients treated with R115777 200 mg (grade 3 diarrhea, grade 4 neutropenia lasting >5 days). The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was R115777 100 mg twice daily and irinotecan 100 mg/m(2) weekly. Non-DLTs were primarily rash, fatigue, diarrhea, and neutropenia. R115777 demonstrated linear pharmacokinetics without interaction with irinotecan and achieved serum levels required for antitumor activity in vitro. Serum levels of R115777 exceeded those necessary for FTase inhibition in vitro without evidence of interaction with irinotecan. However, the MTD of R115777 in this study was lower than that obtained with an alternate schedule. Thus, further development of this schedule is not recommended.
22999476	Determination of erythrocyte methotrexate polyglutamates by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry after low-dose methotrexate therapy in Chinese patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Methotrexate (MTX) is currently one of the most widely used drugs for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) through polyglutamation of methotrexate polyglutamates (MTXPGs), a process attaching sequential -linked glutamic residues to MTX. A new and sensitive LC/MS/MS method was developed and validated for determination of whole-blood MTX and total MTX (MTX+MTXPGs), and then concentration of MTXPGs was calculated. To determine whole-blood MTX, whole blood was precipitated with 50% trifluoroacetic acid, and extraction was performed using ethyl acetoacetate. Analytes were subjected to LC/MS/MS analysis using positive electrospray ionization. To determine whole-blood total MTX, whole blood was incubated with ascorbic acid (200 mM) at 37C for 3h to enzymatically convert the MTXPGs to MTX, and then processed with the same method mentioned above. Recoveries of spiked MTX at ppb (ng/mL) level were between 26.2% and 37.8% with intra- and inter-day precision less than 15.8% and 11.8%, respectively. The lower limit of detection (LLOD) and lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) were 0.5 ng/mL and 1 ng/mL, respectively. The sensitive LC/MS/MS method was fully validated with high selectivity and acceptable accuracy and precision, which was successfully applied to determine the erythrocyte methotrexate polyglutamates in patients with RA.
11452712	Pharmacokinetics of buspirone extended-release tablets: a single-dose study.	The objective of this study is to evaluate the absorption of buspirone and its biotransformation to 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine (1-PP) from two different extended-release (ER) formulations of buspirone HCl tablets (12-hour and 24-hour in vitro release) and from a commercially available immediate-release (IR) tablet. A single dose of the 30 mg ER tablets was compared with two doses of the 15 mg IR tablet administered 12 hours apart. Eighteen healthy male subjects participated in this randomized, open-label, three-treatment crossover study. Blood samples were obtained at 22 time points from predose (0 hour) until 36 hours postdose, and plasma concentration of buspirone and 1-PP was determined by LC/tandem mass spectrometry method. The pharmacokinetic parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-infinity, Cmax, tmax, Ke, and t1/2 were calculated and statistically analyzed. The results indicated extended release of buspirone from the two test products in vivo with a 70% to 90% greater bioavailability in comparison with the IR formulation. The bioavailability of 1-PP from ER formulations appears to be equal to that from the IR formulation. Both buspirone ER tablets successfully delivered bioavailable buspirone with a reduction in peak drug and metabolite plasma levels, prolonged buspirone plasma concentrations, and decreased ratio of 1-PP to buspirone concentration with less intersubject variation when evaluated as a single-dose study in healthy human subjects.
12119000	Cytochrome P450 3A4-mediated bioactivation of raloxifene: irreversible enzyme inhibition and thiol adduct formation.	Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator which is effective in the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. We report herein that cytochrome P450 (P450)3A4 is inhibited by raloxifene in human liver microsomal incubations. The nature of the inhibition was irreversible and was NADPH- and preincubation time-dependent, with K(I) and k(inact) values estimated at 9.9 microM and 0.16 min(-1), respectively. The observed loss of P450 3A4 activity was attenuated partially by glutathione (GSH), implying the involvement of a reactive metabolite(s) in the inactivation process. Subsequently, GSH adducts of raloxifene were identified in incubations with human liver microsomes; substitution with GSH occurred at the 5- or 7-position of the benzothiophene moiety or at the 3'-position of the phenol ring, with the 7-glutathionyl derivative being most abundant based on LC/MS and NMR analyses. These adducts are postulated to derive from addition of GSH to raloxifene arene oxides followed by dehydration and aromatization. Alternatively, raloxifene may be oxidized to an extended quinone intermediate, which then is trapped by GSH conjugation. The bioactivation of raloxifene most likely is catalyzed by P450 3A4, since the formation of GSH adducts was almost abolished when liver microsomes were pretreated with ketoconazole or with an inhibitory anti-P450 3A4 IgG. The GSH adducts also were detected in incubations of raloxifene with rat or human hepatocytes, while the corresponding N-acetylcysteine adducts were identified in the bile and urine from rats treated orally with the drug at 5 mg/kg. Taken together, these data indicate that P450 3A4-mediated bioactivation of raloxifene in vitro is accompanied by loss of enzyme activity. The significance of these findings with respect to the clinical use of raloxifene remains to be determined.
19761716	Influence of age, gender, and race on pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety of fesoterodine.	Fesoterodine, a new antimuscarinic agent for overactive bladder, undergoes immediate and extensive hydrolysis by nonspecific esterases to 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), the metabolite principally responsible for its antimuscarinic activity. Formation of 5-HMT does not require cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated metabolism, but its further metabolism and inactivation involves CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isoenzymes. Subject age, gender, and race can play a key role in inter-subject variability in pharmacokinetics and thus efficacy and safety of drugs. This article examines the effects of age, gender, and race on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fesoterodine. Data from two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trials in healthy subjects are presented: Study 1 investigated the effects of race (white vs. black men) and Study 2 investigated the effects of age (young vs. old men) and gender (elderly men vs. elderly women) on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of single doses of fesoterodine 8 mg. In both studies, the primary endpoints were area under the concentration-time curve up to the last sample (AUC0-tz) and maximum concentration (Cmax) of 5-HMT in plasma. Pharmacodynamic variables included spontaneous salivary secretion (Studies 1 and 2) and residual urine volume (Study 2 only). The two studies included 5 groups of 16 subjects each (randomized 3 : 1 to fesoterodine or placebo): white men aged 18 - 45 years, black men aged 18 - 45 years (Study 1); young white men aged 18 - 40 years, elderly white men aged > 65 years, and elderly white women aged > 65 years (Study 2). There were no clinically meaningful differences in the primary endpoints between white and black subjects or between young white men, elderly white men, and elderly white women. Mean AUC0-tz was 70.7 ng/ml x h in whites and 64.1 ng/ml x h in blacks; mean Cmax was 6.1 and 5.5 ng/ml in whites and blacks, respectively. Mean AUC0-tz in young white men, elderly white men, and elderly white women was 49, 48, and 54 ng/ml x h, respectively; mean Cmax in young white men, elderly white men, and elderly white women was 4.1, 3.8, and 4.6 ng/ml, respectively. Consistent with the anticholinergic pharmacology of fesoterodine, declines in salivary volume were observed in both studies, and elevations in residual urinary volume were observed, especially in elderly subjects, in Study 2. Fesoterodine was well tolerated, with common adverse events such as headache and dry mouth recognized as antimuscarinic class effects. Subject demographics, such as age, gender, and race, do not have a clinically meaningful effect on 5-HMT pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics after single-dose administration of fesoterodine 8 mg; thus, no dosage adjustment is required for fesoterodine based on age, gender, or race.
17178634	Stereoselective pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin in vitro and in vivo.	In vitro studies and the multiple applications of an oxybutynin (OXY) transdermal delivery system to Japanese healthy volunteers were conducted to characterize the stereoselectivity in the pharmacokinetics of OXY and its metabolite, N-desethyloxybutynin (DEOB). In human liver microsomes, (R)-OXY and (R)-DEOB were eliminated slightly slower than the corresponding (S)-enantiomers. The production of DEOB from OXY for the (R)-enantiomer was also slower than that for the (S)-enantiomer. In human P450-expressing liver microsomes, OXY was metabolized mainly by CYP3A4 among five cytochrome P450s (CYPs) tested (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5) and the kinetics were slightly different for the enantiomer. The unbound fraction of (R)-OXY in plasma was almost two times higher than that of (S)-OXY, whereas (R)-DEOB was bound to plasma protein more than (S)-DEOB. No differences were observed in the blood-plasma concentration ratios for the enantiomers. After multiple applications of the transdermal delivery system, the plasma concentrations of (R)-OXY were lower than those of (S)-OXY. These data indicate that for the stereoselectivity of OXY, the unbound fraction of each OXY enantiomer was a major factor and the metabolism in liver had a minimal effect.
19875500	Coupling of liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography/solid-phase extraction/NMR techniques for the structural identification of metabolites following in vitro biotransformation of SUR1-selective ATP-sensitive potassium channel openers.	SUR1-selective ATP-sensitive potassium channel openers (PCOs) have been shown to be of clinical value for the treatment of several metabolic disorders, including type I and type II diabetes, obesity, and hyperinsulinemia. Taking into account these promising therapeutic benefits, different series of 3-alkylamino-4H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine 1,1-dioxides structurally related to diazoxide were developed. In view of the lead optimization process of the series, knowledge of absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity parameters, and more particularly the metabolic fate of these compounds, is a fundamental requirement. For such a purpose, two selected promising compounds [7-chloro-3-isopropylamino-4H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine 1,1-dioxide (BPDZ 73) and 7-chloro-3-(3-pentylamino)-4H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine 1,1-dioxide (BPDZ 157)] were incubated in the presence of phenobarbital-induced rat liver microsomes to produce expected mammal in vivo phase I metabolites. The resulting major metabolites were then analyzed by both mass spectrometry (MS) and NMR to completely elucidate their chemical structures. The two compounds were also further incubated in the presence of nontreated rats and human microsomes to compare the metabolic profiles. In the present study, the combined use of an exact mass liquid chromatography (LC)/tandem MS platform and an LC/solid-phase extraction/NMR system allowed the clarification of some unresolved structural assessments in the accurate chemical structure elucidation process of the selected PCO drugs. These results greatly help the optimization of the lead compounds.
21626051	A drug interaction study evaluating the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of sorafenib in combination with capecitabine.	To address tolerability and a possible pharmacologic interaction of capecitabine with sorafenib. Patients with advanced solid tumors (ECOG PS 0-1) were included. Cohort A received capecitabine 750mg/m(2) BID and Cohort B received capecitabine 1,000mg/m(2) BID, both for 14days of a 21-day cycle. Steady-state PK was obtained for capecitabine alone, sorafenib alone, and in combination. Cohort C explored an alternate schedule of 7-day on/7-day off flat dose capecitabine 1,000mg BID with continuous dosing of sorafenib 400mg BID. A total of 32 patients were enrolled between February 08 and April 09. Hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) was the primary toxicity with 16 (50%) of the 32 patients experiencing grade 3 events (75% occurring during cycles 1-2). Grade 3 HFSR defined the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Cohort C at 1,000mg BID flat dose of capecitabine. Other grade 3/4 toxicities were rare (diarrhea 6%, mucositis 3%, and fatigue 3%). Capecitabine did not change the C (max) or AUC((0-12)) of sorafenib. Co-administration of sorafenib with capecitabine 750mg/m(2) (n=6 patients) increased capecitabine AUC((0-12)) 15% and produced no change in the 5FU AUC((0-12)). At the capecitabine 1,000mg/m(2) dose level (n=12 pts), there was a 16% increase in capecitabine AUC((0-12)) and an 8% increase in 5FU AUC((0-12)). However, these trends were not statistically significant. Co-administration of sorafenib resulted in a mild increase in capecitabine AUC, although not statistically significant. Capecitabine did not affect the exposure of sorafenib. The rate of grade 3 HFSR is concerning and limits the feasibility of prolonged dosing of sorafenib with capecitabine 1,000mg/m(2) on the 21-day schedule.
17451226	Stereoisomeric identification of norephedrine derived from methamphetamine or amphetamine: urinalysis results of 33 methamphetamine abusers and 1 amphetamine abuser in Japan.	Stereoisomeric identification of norephedrine (NE) derived from methamphetamine (MA) or amphetamine (AM) was investigated by SIM-GC/MS assay using the urine of 33 MA abusers and 1 AM abuser. The assay simultaneously identified TFA-derivatized MA and AM metabolites, including AM, p-hydroxyl-MA (p-HMA), and p-hydroxyl-AM (p-HAM). The analysis lasted approximately 43 min, with a signal-to-noise ratio of >or=3 and a detection limit of 50 ng/mL. Among 12 urine samples from different subjects, only the S (+) form of MA and its metabolites (AM, p-HMA, p-HAM) was detected, however, a (1R,2S)-(-)-NE stereoisomer was also identified. Among the urine samples of two subjects, only the R (-) form of MA and its metabolites (AM, p-HMA, p-HAM) was detected, while NE was not detected. Following urinalysis of urine obtained from 19 MA abusers and 1 AM abuser, only the (1R,2S)-(-)-NE stereoisomer was identified, while unmetabolized MA, AM, and their metabolites (p-HMA, p-HAM), showed stereoselective metabolism. Although (1R,2S)-(-)-ephedrine (EP) alone was found in the urine of 1 (S)-(+)-MA user and 1 (S)-(+)- and (R)-(-)-MA user among 33 MA users, it was not present in the urine of the remaining 31 subjects. Therefore, (1R,2S)-(-)-NE was likely not of (1R,2S)-(-)-EP origin and was most likely from (S)-(+)-AM of the MA metabolite. The production ratio of (1R,2S)-(-)-NE to (S)-(+)-AM ranged from 0.01 to 0.25 in MA abusers and was 0.12 in AM abusers.
1581537	Hydroxylation of warfarin by human cDNA-expressed cytochrome P-450: a role for P-4502C9 in the etiology of (S)-warfarin-drug interactions.	Previous kinetic studies have identified a high-affinity (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylase present in human liver microsomes which appears to be responsible for the termination of warfarin's biological activity. Inhibition of the formation of (S)-7-hydroxywarfarin, the inactive, major metabolite of racemic warfarin in humans, is known to be the cause of several of the drug interactions experienced clinically upon coadministration of warfarin with other therapeutic agents. In order to identify the specific form(s) of human liver cytochrome P-450 involved in this particular toxicity, we have determined the metabolic profiles of 11 human cytochrome P-450 forms expressed in HepG2 cells toward both (R)- and (S)-warfarin. Of the 11 forms examined only 2C9 displayed the regioselectivity and stereoselectivity appropriate for the high-affinity human liver microsomal (S)-7-hydroxylase. We further compared Michaelis-Menten and sulfaphenazole inhibition constants for (S)-warfarin 7-hydroxylation catalyzed by cDNA-expressed 2C9 and by human liver microsomes. Similar kinetic constants were obtained for each enzyme source. It is concluded that 2C9 is likely to be a principal form of human liver P-450 which modulates the in vivo anticoagulant activity of the drug. It is further concluded that those drug interactions with warfarin that arise as a result of decreased clearance of the biologically more potent S-enantiomer may have as their common basis the inhibition of P-450 2C9.
15104117	Metabolism of ethylbenzene by human liver microsomes and recombinant human cytochrome P450s (CYP).	The enzyme kinetics of the initial hydroxylation of ethylbenzene to form 1-phenylethanol were determined in human liver microsomes. The individual cytochrome P450 (CYP) forms catalysing this reaction were identified using selective inhibitors and recombinant preparations of hepatic CYPs. Production of 1-phenylethanol in hepatic microsomes exhibited biphasic kinetics with a high affinity, low Km, component (mean Km = 8 microM; V(max) = 689 pmol/min/mg protein; n = 6 livers) and a low affinity, high Km, component (Km = 391 microM; V(max) = 3039 pmol/min/mg protein; n = 6). The high-affinity component was inhibited 79%-95% (mean 86%) by diethyldithiocarbamate, and recombinant CYP2E1 was shown to metabolise ethylbenzene with low Km (35 microM), but also low (max) (7 pmol/min/pmol P450), indicating that this isoform catalysed the high-affinity component. Recombinant CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 exhibited high V(max) (88 and 71 pmol/min/pmol P450, respectively) and high Km (502 and 219 microM, respectively), suggesting their involvement in catalysing the low-affinity component. This study has demonstrated that CYP2E1 is the major enzyme responsible for high-affinity side chain hydroxylation of ethylbenzene in human liver microsomes. Activity of this enzyme in the population is highly variable due to induction or inhibition by physiological factors, chemicals in the diet or some pharmaceuticals. This variability can be incorporated into the risk assessment process to improve the setting of occupational exposure limits and guidance values for biological monitoring.
20040581	Cross-species comparison of the metabolism and excretion of zoniporide: contribution of aldehyde oxidase to interspecies differences.	Excretion and metabolism of zoniporide were investigated in humans after intravenous infusion of [(14)C]zoniporide at an 80-mg dose. Bile was the primary route of excretion because 57% of dose was recovered in the feces after intravenous infusion. Zoniporide was primarily cleared via metabolism in humans. 2-Oxozoniporide (M1) was the major excretory and circulating metabolite in humans and was catalyzed by aldehyde oxidase (K(m) of 3.4 microM and V(max) of 74 pmol/min/mg protein). Metabolites M2 (17% of the dose) and M3 (6.4% of circulating radioactivity), in which the guanidine moiety was hydrolyzed to a carboxylic acid, were also detected in human feces and plasma, respectively, suggesting that hydrolysis was another route of metabolism of zoniporide in humans. The metabolism and excretion of [(14)C]zoniporide in rats and dogs were also evaluated. As in humans, bile was the primary route of excretion of the radiolabeled material in both species, and metabolism was the primary route of clearance. A comparison of plasma metabolites showed that for M3, rats had a higher concentration than human or dog. M1 was absent in dog and present in human and rat plasma at comparable levels, whereas comparison of excreta showed that the total body burden of M1 was greater in rat than that in human. No further evaluation of M2 was considered because it was detected only in the human fecal extracts. Hence, no further toxicological evaluation of the three human metabolites was undertaken.
3424870	Disposition of 3H-enisoprost, a gastric antisecretory prostaglandin, in healthy humans.	1. After oral administration of 3H-enisoprost (450 micrograms) to five healthy men, as a solution in capsules, peak 3H levels of 5624 +/- 566 pg equiv./ml (mean +/- S.E.M.) were reached within one hour. No unchanged drug was detected in plasma. 2. Enisoprost was rapidly de-esterified to SC-36067 [(+/-)11 alpha, 16 zeta-dihydroxy-16-methyl-9-oxoprost-4Z, 13E-dien-1-oic acid], a pharmacologically active analogue, which reached peak concentrations of 651 +/- 200 pg/ml within 20 min of dosing. SC-36067 was eliminated metabolically, with a half-life of 1.61 h, by a combination of beta-oxidation, omega-oxidation and 9-keto-reduction. 3. After nine days 59.0 +/- 2.98% and 17.4 +/- 1.57% of the dose was excreted in urine and faeces respectively. The majority of this excretion was complete in two days. 4. Five urinary metabolites were identified by GC-MS. These were (+/-)3-[2 beta-(4-hydroxy-4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-3 alpha-hydroxy-5-oxo-1 alpha-cyclopentanyl]propanoic acid (SC-41411; 3.6% dose), (+/-)3-[3 alpha,5-dihydroxy-2 beta-(4-hydroxy-4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-1 alpha-cyclopentanyl]propanoic acid (SC-41411 PGF analogue; 4.8% dose), (+/-)3-[2 beta-(8-carboxy-4-hydroxy- 4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-3 alpha-hydroxy-5-oxo-1 alpha-cyclopentanyl] propanoic acid (SC-41411-16-carboxylic acid; 22% dose), (+/-)3-[2 beta-(8-carboxy-4- hydroxy-4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-3 alpha,5-dihydroxy-1 alpha-cyclopentanyl] propanoic acid (SC-41411 PGF analogue-16-carboxylic acid; 8.5% dose) and its gamma lactone (2.6% dose). 5. These metabolites were also identified chromatographically in plasma, as were SC-36067, (+/-)3-[2 beta-(4-hydroxy-4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-5-oxo-1 alpha- cyclopent-3-enyl]propanoic acid and (+/-)3-[2 beta-(4-hydroxy-4-methyl-1E-octenyl)-5-oxo-cyclopent-1- propanoic acid. 6. Some 5-10% of the dose was excreted in urine as tritiated water, indicating that oxidation of the 11 alpha-hydroxy group in SC-36067 or its metabolites also occurred.
12189228	Effects of St. John's wort on irinotecan metabolism.	St. John's wort (SJW), a widely used herbal product, has been implicated in drug interactions resulting from the induced expression of the cytochrome P450 CYP3A4 isoform. In this study, we determined the effect of SJW on the metabolism of irinotecan, a pro-drug of SN-38 and a known substrate for CYP3A4. Five cancer patients were treated with irinotecan (350 mg/m(2), intravenously) in the presence and absence of SJW (900 mg daily, orally for 18 days) in an unblinded, randomized crossover study design. The plasma levels of the active metabolite SN-38 decreased by 42% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 14% to 70%) following SJW cotreatment with 1.0 micro M x h (95% CI = 0.34 micro M x h to 1.7 micro M x h) versus 1.7 micro M x h (95% CI = 0.83 micro M x h to 2.6 micro M x h) (P =.033, two-sided paired Student's t test). Consequently, the degree of myelosuppression was substantially worse in the absence of SJW. These findings indicate that patients on irinotecan treatment should refrain from taking SJW because plasma levels of SN-38 were dramatically reduced, which may have a deleterious impact on treatment outcome.
21740478	Genotype-directed, dose-finding study of irinotecan in cancer patients with UGT1A1*28 and/or UGT1A1*6 polymorphisms.	Irinotecan-induced severe neutropenia is associated with homozygosity for the UGT1A1*28 or UGT1A1*6 alleles. In this study, we determined the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of irinotecan in patients with UGT1A1 polymorphisms. Patients who had received chemotherapy other than irinotecan for metastatic gastrointestinal cancer were enrolled. Patients were divided into three groups according to UGT1A1 genotypes: wild-type (*1/*1); heterozygous (*28/*1, *6/*1); or homozygous (*28/*28, *6/*6, *28/*6). Irinotecan was given every 2 weeks for two cycles. The wild-type group received a fixed dose of irinotecan (150 mg/m(2)) to serve as a reference. The MTD was guided from 75 to 150 mg/m(2) by the continual reassessment method in the heterozygous and homozygous groups. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and pharmacokinetics were evaluated during cycle 1. Of 82 patients enrolled, DLT was assessable in 79 patients (wild-type, 40; heterozygous, 20; and homozygous, 19). Dose-limiting toxicity occurred in one patient in the wild-type group, none in the heterozygous group, and six patients (grade 4 neutropenia) in the homozygous group. In the homozygous group, the MTD was 150 mg/m(2) and the probability of DLT was 37.4%. The second cycle was delayed because of neutropenia in 56.3% of the patients given the MTD. The AUC(0-24 h) of SN-38 was significantly greater (P < 0.001) and more widely distributed in the homozygous group. Patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 or UGT1A1*6 allele can receive irinotecan in a starting dose of 150 mg/m(2), but many required dose reductions or delayed treatment in subsequent cycles. UMIN Clinical Trial Registration number: UMIN000000618.
1600616	Acetyl transferase-mediated metabolic activation of N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl by human uroepithelial cells.	Metabolism and nucleic acid binding of N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-ABP), a proximate carcinogenic metabolite of the human bladder carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP), was investigated using cultured normal human uroepithelial cells (HUC). HPLC and TLC of the ethyl acetate extract of the media from cultured HUC after 4 h exposure to N-OH-ABP revealed the formation of two major metabolites, ABP and 4-acetylaminobiphenyl (AABP), suggesting the presence of N-acetyl transferase(s) in HUC. This was further confirmed by the formation of AABP, during the incubation of ABP with acetyl coenzyme A (AcCoA) and HUC cytosol. To test whether these enzymes also catalyze the AcCoA-dependent O-acetylation, we examined the metabolic activation of N-OH-ABP using cytosolic preparations. Cytosol from HUC catalyzed AcCoA-dependent binding of [3H]N-OH-ABP to RNA; the amount of binding was 757 pmol/mg RNA/mg protein. Binding with DNA was quantitatively similar to RNA. HPLC and TLC analyses of the enzymatic hydrolysate of [3H]N-OH-ABP-bound DNA revealed the major adduct to be N-(deoxyguanosine-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl, based on mobility of the radioactivity in comparison with the authentic synthetic standard. 32P-Post-labeling analysis of the DNA from the cytosol-mediated binding of N-OH-ABP revealed four radioactive spots. In contrast, post-labeling analysis of the DNA from intact HUC exposed to N-OH-ABP showed five adducts, including two of the adducts observed with HUC cytosols, suggesting the possible involvement of additional activation pathway(s) in intact HUC. These results suggest that bioactivation of N-OH-ABP could occur within the HUC, the target organ for ABP, and that cytosolic acetyl transferase(s) may play a critical role in susceptibility to arylamine-induced bladder carcinogenesis.
23002178	Analysis of clothing and urine from Moscow theatre siege casualties reveals carfentanil and remifentanil use.	On October 26, 2002, Russian Special Forces deployed a chemical aerosol against Chechen terrorists to rescue hostages in the Dubrovka theatre. Its use confirmed Russian military interest in chemicals with effects on personnel and caused 125 deaths through a combination of the aerosol and inadequate medical care. This study provides evidence from liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of extracts of clothing from two British survivors, and urine from a third survivor, that the aerosol comprised a mixture of two anaesthetics--carfentanil and remifentanil--whose relative proportions this study was unable to identify. Carfentanil and remifentanil were found on a shirt sample and a metabolite called norcarfentanil was found in a urine sample. This metabolite probably originated from carfentanil.
18842466	Simultaneous quantification of tiloronoxim and tilorone in human urine by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A simple, sensitive and specific HPLC method with tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) detection has been developed and validated for the simultaneous quantification of tiloronoxim and its major active metabolite, tilorone, in human urine. The analytes, together with metoprolol, which was employed as an internal standard (IS), were extracted with a mixture solvent of chloroform/ethyl ether (1/2, v/v). The chromatographic separation was performed on a narrow-bore reversed phase HPLC column with a gradient mobile phase of methanol/water containing 15 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 10.5). The API 3,000 mass spectrometer was equipped with a TurboIonSpray interface and was operated on positive-ion, multiple reaction-monitoring (MRM) mode. The mass transitions monitored were m/z 426.3-->100.0, m/z 411.3-->100.0 and m/z 268.3-->116.1 for tiloronoxim, tilorone and the IS, respectively. The assay exhibited a linear dynamic range of 1-100 ng/ml for both tiloronoxim and tilorone based on the analysis of 0.2 ml aliquots of urine. The lower limit of quantification was 1 ng/ml for both compounds. Acceptable precision and accuracies were obtained for concentrations over the standard curve ranges. Run time of 8 min for each injection made it possible to analyze a high throughput of urine samples. The assay has been successfully used to analyze human urine samples from healthy volunteers.
23616084	Phase I study of oral gemcitabine prodrug (LY2334737) in Japanese patients with advanced solid tumors.	LY2334737 is an oral gemcitabine prodrug. This Phase I study assessed the safety and tolerability of LY2334737 in Japanese patients with solid tumors and evaluated pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics, and antitumor activity. Patients with advanced/metastatic solid tumors received escalating doses of LY2334737 once daily for 14 days, followed by a 7-day drug-free period. Cycles were repeated until discontinuation criteria were met. Of 13 patients treated, 3 received 20 mg/day, 6 received 30 mg/day, 4 received 40 mg/day. On the 40 mg dose, 3 patients experienced dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs): hepatic toxicities (e.g., Grade [G]3/4 transaminase and G1-3 bilirubin elevation) and G4 thrombocytopenia; all 3 showed features of disseminated intravascular coagulation. One additional DLT occurred on the 30 mg dose (G3 transaminase elevation). Exploratory pharmacogenetic analyses identified a genetic variation in the CES2 gene potentially associated with these DLTs. PK data showed no clear relationship between the AUC of gemcitabine and its incorporation into leukocyte DNA; 2 of the 3 DLT patients had high incorporation. Two patients (30 mg/day) achieved stable disease with progression-free survival lasting 135 and 155 days. LY2334737 was tolerated by Japanese patients up to 30 mg/day. The toxicities observed at the 40 mg dose may require the development of alternative dosing schedules.
16299161	Glucuronidation converts gemfibrozil to a potent, metabolism-dependent inhibitor of CYP2C8: implications for drug-drug interactions.	Gemfibrozil more potently inhibits CYP2C9 than CYP2C8 in vitro, and yet the opposite inhibitory potency is observed in the clinic. To investigate this apparent paradox, we evaluated both gemfibrozil and its major metabolite, an acyl-glucuronide (gemfibrozil 1-O-beta-glucuronide) as direct-acting and metabolism-dependent inhibitors of the major drug-metabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4) in human liver microsomes. Gemfibrozil most potently inhibited CYP2C9 (IC50 of 30 microM), whereas gemfibrozil glucuronide most potently inhibited CYP2C8 (IC50 of 24 microM). Unexpectedly, gemfibrozil glucuronide, but not gemfibrozil, was found to be a metabolism-dependent inhibitor of CYP2C8 only. The IC50 for inhibition of CYP2C8 by gemfibrozil glucuronide decreased from 24 microM to 1.8 microM after a 30-min incubation with human liver microsomes and NADPH. Inactivation of CYP2C8 by gemfibrozil glucuronide required NADPH, and proceeded with a K(I) (inhibitor concentration that supports half the maximal rate of enzyme inactivation) of 20 to 52 microM and a k(inact) (maximal rate of inactivation) of 0.21 min(-1). Potent inhibition of CYP2C8 was also achieved by first incubating gemfibrozil with alamethicin-activated human liver microsomes and UDP-glucuronic acid (to form gemfibrozil glucuronide), followed by a second incubation with NADPH. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis established that human liver microsomes and recombinant CYP2C8 both convert gemfibrozil glucuronide to a hydroxylated metabolite, with oxidative metabolism occurring on the dimethylphenoxy moiety (the group furthest from the glucuronide moiety). The results described have important implications for the mechanism of the clinical interaction reported between gemfibrozil and CYP2C8 substrates such as cerivastatin, repaglinide, rosiglitazone, and pioglitazone.
15764714	Atazanavir: effects on P-glycoprotein transport and CYP3A metabolism in vitro.	The effect of atazanavir on P-glycoprotein (P-gp) expression and activity, as well as its inhibitory potency against CYP3A activity, was evaluated in vitro. Induction of P-gp activity and expression was studied using LS180V cells. P-gp inhibition was studied using both LS180V cells and Caco-2 cells. P-gp activity was assessed by measuring P-gp-mediated rhodamine 123 (Rh123) transport, and P-gp expression was determined using SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis/Western blot analysis. CYP3A inhibition was tested using triazolam hydroxylation in human liver microsomes (HLM). Extended (3-day) exposure of LS180V cells to 30 microM atazanavir caused a 2.5-fold increase in immunoreactive P-gp expression as well as a concentration-dependent decrease of intracellular Rh123 to a mean 45% (S.D. 5.2%) of control. Acute exposure (2 h) of LS180V cells to atazanavir increased intracellular Rh123 concentrations up to 300% of control at 100 microM atazanavir. At 30 microM and above, acute atazanavir exposure reversed P-gp induction caused by 3-day pretreatment with 10 microM ritonavir. P-gp inhibition was also observed in Caco-2 cells, causing an effect comparable to that observed for the known P-gp inhibitor verapamil (50% of control). In HLM, atazanavir was an inhibitor of triazolam hydroxylation, with inhibitory potency greatly increased by preincubation. IC50 values with and without preincubation were 0.31 microM (S.D. 0.13) and 5.7 microM (S.D. 4.1), respectively. Thus, atazanavir is an inhibitor and inducer of P-gp as well as a potent inhibitor of CYP3A in vitro, suggesting a potential for atazanavir to cause drug-drug interactions in vivo.
7859374	Metabolic activation of the N-hydroxy derivative of the carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl by human tissue sulfotransferases.	The role of human sulfotransferase(s) in the bioactivation of the N-hydroxy (N-OH) metabolite of the human bladder carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) was investigated in vitro with human tissue cytosols. Using an enzymatic assay consisting of a PAPS-regenerating system, [3H]N-OH-ABP, calf thymus DNA and tissue cytosols, the sulfotransferase-mediated metabolic activation of N-OH-ABP was determined as the PAPS-dependent covalent binding of the N-OH substrate to DNA. With cytosols prepared from various tissues, we found that the sulfotransferase(s) in human liver, and to a lesser extent colon, can readily metabolize N-OH-ABP. No PAPS-dependent metabolic activation was detected with cytosols prepared from human pancreas or from the carcinogen target tissue, the urinary bladder epithelium. The N-OH-ABP sulfotransferase activities of liver and colon cytosols from different individuals were highly correlated with their thermostable phenol sulfotransferase (TS-PST) activity (liver, r = 0.99, P < 0.01; colon, r = 0.88, P < 0.01), but not with activities for the thermolabile phenol sulfotransferase (TL-PST; liver, r = 0.29; colon, r = 0.53), or for the dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferase (DHEA-ST; liver, r = 0.32; colon, negligible activity). N-OH-ABP sulfotransferase activity was highly sensitive to inhibition by a selective TS-PST inhibitor, 2,6-dichloro-4-nitrophenol (IC50 = 0.7 microM), and by p-nitrophenol, but was unaffected by competitive inhibitors of TL-PST (dopamine) or DHEA-ST (DHEA, DHEA-sulfate). The N-OH-ABP sulfotransferase activity also exhibited thermostability properties similar to that of the TS-PST. From these data, we conclude that human liver TS-PST but not TL-PST or DHEA-ST can metabolically activate the proximate human carcinogen N-OH-ABP to a reactive sulfuric acid ester intermediate that binds covalently to DNA. In addition, in view of the putative role of N-OH-ABP as a major transport form of the carcinogen to the urinary bladder and of the absence of sulfotransferase activity in this tissue, we hypothesize that sulfotransferase activation in the liver may actually decrease the bioavailability of N-OH-ABP toward extrahepatic tissues and thus serve as an important overall detoxification mechanism for the urinary bladder.
1544283	The erythromycin breath test selectively measures P450IIIA in patients with severe liver disease.	There are significant interpatient differences in the activity of a major drug metabolizing enzyme termed P450IIIA. Because P450IIIA uniquely catalyzes the N-demethylation of erythromycin, we have proposed that the P450IIIA activity of a patient may be determined from the rate of 14CO2 production in the breath after an intravenous infusion of a test dose of [14C-N-methyl]erythromycin. However, direct evidence that this erythromycin breath test selectively measures P450IIIA and not other major human liver P450s in patients has been lacking. We therefore administered the erythromycin breath test to nine patients with severe liver disease who were awaiting liver transplantation. Microsomes were prepared from liver samples obtained during surgery and the concentration of P450IA2, P450IIC8, P450IIC9, P450IIE1, and P450IIIA were determined immunochemically. We found a significant correlation between patients' erythromycin breath test results and their liver P450IIIA levels (r2 = 0.56, p = 0.02). In contrast, there was no correlation at all between the erythromycin breath test result and the microsomal levels of any of the other four P450s assayed. The correlation of the erythromycin breath test and P450IIIA did not appear related to the extent of liver disease because neither correlated with prothrombin time or albumin or bilirubin levels. These data provide the best evidence to date that the erythromycin breath test is a specific assay of in vivo P450IIIA activity in patients.
23721565	Bioactivation of sitaxentan in liver microsomes, hepatocytes, and expressed human P450s with characterization of the glutathione conjugate by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	Sitaxentan is a selective endothelin-A receptor antagonist that was marketed as Thelin in several European countries and Canada for pulmonary arterial hypertension. Sitaxentan was undergoing further clinical trials in the United States but due to four deaths and one case of liver transplantation from severe liver toxicity that appeared to be idiosyncratic in nature, it was withdrawn worldwide in December, 2010. Sitaxentan contains a 1,3-benzodioxole ring that undergoes enzymatic demethyleneation to an ortho-catechol metabolite that can further oxidize to a reactive ortho-quinone metabolite. Here, we report the detection and mass spectral characterization of a glutathione conjugate of this sitaxentan quinone reactive metabolite that was trapped in vitro using mouse, rat, dog, and human liver microsomes supplemented with NADPH and glutathione and that was also observed in rat and human hepatocytes. Using human liver microsomes, we also demonstrated that P450 3A4 undergoes time-dependent inhibition. Density functional calculations on the catechol metabolite of sitaxentan indicated that the reaction leading to the quinone was thermodynamically favorable with an enthalpy change of -6.3 kcal/mol. Using density functional methodology, we modeled the attack of glutathione on the quinone with an S-methyl thiolate anion which allowed us to predict, based on the difference in transition state energies, that the 2-position on the phenyl ring was more likely than the 5-position as the site of glutathione conjugation. Overall, our results demonstrated that sitaxentan is capable of facile formation of a reactive ortho-quinone metabolite capable of reacting with glutathione and may rationalize the idiosyncratic nature of the hepatotoxicity that led to its withdrawal.
12738193	Absorption and metabolism of glycosidic sweeteners of stevia mixture and their aglycone, steviol, in rats and humans.	Stevia mixture, sweeteners extracted from the leaves of Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni, consists mainly of the glycosides of the diterpene derivative steviol. The aims of this study were to investigate the absorption (in rats) and the hepatic metabolism (in rats and humans) of both stevia mixture and steviol. Absorption was investigated both in vivo and ex vivo. In ex vivo experiments using the rat everted sac method, no absorption of stevia mixture was observed, but significant absorption of steviol was noted (equivalent to approximately 70% of the absorption reference- salicylic acid- value). In the in vivo experiment, rats received a single oral administration of either steviol or stevia mixture; a peak steviol concentration in plasma was observed 15 min after its oral administration, demonstrating rapid absorption. However, after oral administration of stevia mixture, the steviol concentration in plasma increased steadily over 8 h, suggesting that stevia mixture components are first degraded and then absorbed as steviol in the rat intestine. Steviol metabolism in humans and rats was examined by incubating steviol with liver microsomes from the two species. Oxidative (monohydroxy and dihydroxy) metabolites of steviol were observed by LC-ESI/MS after incubation with both human and rat liver microsomes. The intrinsic clearance of steviol in human liver microsomes was 4-times lower than that found in rat liver microsomes. In conclusion, this study suggests that there are no major species differences in steviol hepatic metabolism between rats and humans. Absorption from the human intestine can be predicted to occur in an analogous manner to that from the rat intestine.
16854634	Simultaneous determination of azelnidipine and two metabolites in human plasma using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A quantitative assay method by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS) for the simultaneous determination of azelnidipine and its two metabolites, M-1 (aromatized form) and M-2 (hydroxylated form), in human plasma was developed and validated. Plasma samples, each of 1.0mL, were extracted by a single step liquid-liquid extraction using a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexane (1:1, v/v), and analyzed by the LC/ESI-MS/MS method. Three analytes were separated by isocratic elution on a C(18) column, and ionized using a positive ion electrospray ionization source. The ion transitions were monitored in selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mode. The chromatographic run time was 11min per injection, with retention time of 3.6, 10.2 and 6.8min for azelnidipine, M-1 and M-2, respectively. The calibration curves for azelnidipine, M-1 and M-2 well fitted to equations by a weighted (1/X(2)) quadratic regression over the range of 0.5-40.0ng/mL (r(2)>0.9979). The intra- and inter-assay precisions (coefficient of variation: C.V.), calculated from quality control (QC) samples, were less than 8.7 and 8.4%, 3.8 and 4.7%, and 11.9 and 13.9%, respectively, for azelnidipine, M-1 and M-2. The accuracy was within +/-9% for azelnidipine, within +/-7% for M-1 and within +/-16% for M-2. The overall recoveries for azelnidipine, M-1 and M-2 were 68.8-78.6%, 54.3-62.9% and 80.4-89.7%, respectively. All analytes evaluated demonstrated acceptable short-term, long-term, auto-sampler and stock solution stabilities. Furthermore, the method developed was successfully applied to pharmacokinetic studies on azelnidipine, M-1 and M-2 after an oral dose of 16mg CALBLOCK tablets (2mgx8mg tablets) to healthy volunteers.
17132254	Incomplete recovery of prescription opioids in urine using enzymatic hydrolysis of glucuronide metabolites.	Confirmation of opioids in urine samples of clinical patients requires liberation of opioids from their glucuronide conjugates. Both acid hydrolysis and enzyme hydrolysis using beta-glucuronidase from various sources have been reported, with the latter approach prevailing in most clinical toxicology laboratories. The goal of this study was to compare the efficiency of acid versus different enzyme hydrolysis methods in recovering morphine and common semisynthetic opioids from glucuronide standards and 78 patient urine samples that were screened positive for opioids as a class. Specimens were analyzed with a validated gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) procedure. With the exception of oxycodone, the results indicated that the majority of opioids tested were extensively glucuronide-conjugated in urine. Significantly, acid hydrolysis liberated > 90% of morphine and hydromorphone from their glucuronide standards but enzyme hydrolysis had lower and variable efficiency, depending on the opiate type and the enzyme source. In patient specimens, much higher concentrations of free codeine, morphine, hydromorphone, and oxymorphone were obtained with acid hydrolysis than with various enzyme methods. Incomplete hydrolysis using beta-glucuronidase could lead to false-negative results for many opioids when urine is tested for drugs of abuse. We conclude that acid hydrolysis is the method of choice for GC-MS confirmation of urine opioids.
11907490	Effect of growth hormone on hepatic cytochrome P450 activity in healthy elderly men.	Our objective was to study the effect of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) on hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) activity in 30 healthy elderly men. The study was carried out as a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel-group study. rhGH or placebo was administered for a period of 12 weeks. CYP activity was measured before, after 12 weeks of rhGH and placebo administration, and at 4 weeks after termination of rhGH and placebo administration with use of the biomarker reactions of CYP1A2 (caffeine), CYP2C19 (mephenytoin), CYP2D6 (sparteine), CYP3A4 (endogenous cortisol metabolism), and antipyrine clearance as common markers of CYP activity. The metabolic ratio of caffeine increased significantly in the group that received growth hormone compared with placebo (median difference, 4.55; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.64 to 8.60; versus -0.90; 95% CI, -5.70 to 1.36), indicating an induction of CYP1A2. Moreover, the S/R ratio of mephenytoin showed a small but significant increase (median difference, 0.02; 95% CI, 0 to 0.31; versus 0; 95% CI, -0.01 to 0.06), indicating an inhibition of CYP2C19. There were no significant changes of the metabolic ratios of cortisol and sparteine or the antipyrine clearance compared with placebo. These results indicate that growth hormone induces CYP1A2 and, to a lesser extent, inhibits CYP2C19 in elderly men, but it exerts no effects on CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Although the induction of CYP1A2 may be of some clinical relevance, the small inhibition of CYP2C19 is probably unimportant.
7618345	Spectral analysis and structural identification of a major deflazacort metabolite in man.	1. The structure of a previously reported but uncharacterized major metabolite of deflazacort in man, designated V, has been characterized by nmr, MS and IR spectral techniques. 2. The major changes in V relative to deflazacort are deacetylation to form the 21-alcohol and A-ring modification to the 1,2-epoxy-3-hydroxy analogue. 3. Based on the spectral data and comparison with model compounds the structure, including relative stereochemistry, is (1 beta, 2 beta, 3 beta, 11 beta, 16 beta,)-1,2-epoxy-3,11,21-trihydroxy-2'-methyl-5H'-pregn-4-4-eno [17,16-d]oxazol-20-one.
17630711	Toxicity of dimethylmonothioarsinic acid toward human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells.	Chronic ingestion of arsenic-contaminated drinking water induces skin lesions and urinary bladder cancer in humans. It is now recognized that thioarsenicals such as dimethylmonothioarsinic acid (DMMTA (V)) are commonly excreted in the urine of humans and animals and that the production of DMMTA (V) may be a risk factor for the development of the diseases caused by arsenic. The toxicity of DMMTA (V) was compared with that of related nonthiolated arsenicals with respect to cell viability, uptake ability, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and cell cycle progression of human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells, arsenate (iAs (V)), arsenite (iAs (III)), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA (V)), and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA (III)) being used as reference nonthiolated arsenicals. DMMTA (V) (LC 50 = 10.7 microM) was shown to be much more cytotoxic than iAs (V) (LC 50 = 571 microM) and DMA (V) (LC 50 = 843 microM), and its potency was shown to be close to that of trivalent arsenicals iAs (III) (LC 50 = 5.49 microM) and DMA (III) (LC 50 = 2.16 microM). The greater cytotoxicity of DMMTA (V) was associated with greater cellular uptake and distribution, and the level of intracellular ROS remarkably increased in A431 cells upon exposure to DMMTA (V) compared to that after exposure to other trivalent arsenicals at the respective LC 50. Exposure of DMMTA (V) to cells for 24 h induced cell cycle perturbation. Namely, the percentage of cells residing in S and G2/M phases increased from 10.2 and 15.6% to 46.5 and 20.8%, respectively. These results suggest that although DMMTA (V) is a pentavalent arsenical, it is taken up efficiently by cells and causes various levels of toxicity, in a manner different from that of nonthiolated pentavalent arsenicals, demonstrating that DMMTA (V) is one of the most toxic arsenic metabolites. The high cytotoxicity of DMMTA (V) was explained and/or proposed by (1) efficient uptake by cells followed by (2) its transformation to DMA (V), (3) producing ROS in the redox equilibrium between DMA (V) and DMA (III) in the presence of glutathione.
18982531	Characterization of triptolide hydroxylation by cytochrome P450 in human and rat liver microsomes.	Triptolide, the primary active component of a traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, has a wide range of pharmacological activities. In the present study, the metabolism of triptolide by cytochrome P450s was investigated in human and rat liver microsomes. Triptolide was converted to four metabolites (M-1, M-2, M-3, and M-4) in rat liver microsomes and three (M-2, M-3, and M-4) in human liver microsomes. All the products were identified as mono-hydroxylated triptolides by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The studies with chemical selective inhibitors, complementary DNA-expressed human cytochrome P450s, correlation analysis, and enzyme kinetics were also conducted. The results demonstrate that CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 could be involved in the metabolism of triptolide in human liver, and that CYP3A4 was the primary isoform responsible for its hydroxylation.
22045498	A phase I study of vinflunine in combination with capecitabine in patients with metastatic breast cancer previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes.	A phase I study was performed to determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD), recommended dose (RD), safety and efficacy of vinflunine when combined with capecitabine in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes, with pharmacokinetic blood sampling to test potential drug-drug interactions. Sixteen patients with MBC who had received anthracyclines and taxanes in the neo/adjuvant setting, if progression occurred during or within 12 months of chemotherapy completion, and/or as first-line chemotherapy of MBC were enrolled. Vinflunine (VFL) was given on day 1 with capecitabine (CAPE) twice daily from days 1 to 14, every 3 weeks. Three dose levels (DL) were investigated (DL1: VFL 280 mg/m and CAPE 1,650 mg/m/day, DL2: VFL 320 mg/m and CAPE 1,650 mg/m/day and DL3: VFL 280 mg/m and CAPE 2,000 mg/m/day). The RD was established as vinflunine 280 mg/m on day 1 plus capecitabine 1,650 mg/m/day on days 1 to 14 given every 3 weeks. Dose-limiting toxicities were grade 4 neutropenia lasting at least 7 days for 2 patients, anorexia with fatigue for 1 patient and diarrhoea with fatigue, anorexia and febrile neutropenia for 1 patient. Neutropenia was the main toxicity of the combination, it was reported in 15 patients (93.8%) with grade 3 in 7 patients (43.8%) and 22.6% of cycles and grade 4 in 7 patients (43.8%) and 19.8% of cycles. Complications were rare with only one patient experiencing febrile neutropenia at DL exceeding the RD. The most frequent non-haematological toxicities were fatigue and gastrointestinal disorders; however, no grade 3 or 4 episode was observed at the RD. Hand-foot syndrome was reported in 5 patients (31.3%) and 22.6% of cycles, no episode of grade 3 was seen. Concerning pharmacokinetics, no modifications were detected for VFL, while slight accumulation between days 1 and 14 was observed for 5-FU formed from CAPE. The risk of clinical significant drug-drug interaction was considered weak. Objective partial responses were reported in 7 patients, yielding a response rate of 43.8% in the all-treated population according to the investigator assessment. The combination of vinflunine and capecitabine is safe and showed promising antitumour activity in MBC patients who have failed prior anthracyclines and taxanes. Further clinical development of this combination is warranted.
14749694	Cytochrome P450 1A2 is a major determinant of lidocaine metabolism in vivo: effects of liver function.	This study was designed (1) to evaluate the effect of a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 inhibitor, fluvoxamine, on the pharmacokinetics of intravenous lidocaine and its 2 pharmacologically active metabolites, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and glycinexylidide (GX), to confirm recent in vitro results indicating that CYP1A2 is the main isoform responsible for lidocaine biotransformation and (2) to assess whether liver function has any influence on the fluvoxamine-lidocaine interaction. The study was carried out in 10 healthy volunteers and 20 patients with cirrhosis, 10 with mild (Child grade A) and 10 with severe (Child grade C) liver dysfunction, according to a randomized, double-blind, 2-phase, crossover design. In one phase all participants received placebo for 6 days; in the other phase they received 50 mg fluvoxamine for 2 days and 100 mg fluvoxamine for the next 4 days. On day 6, a 1-mg/kg lidocaine dose was administered intravenously 2 hours after the last dose of fluvoxamine or placebo. Plasma concentrations of lidocaine, MEGX, GX, and fluvoxamine were measured up to 12 hours after lidocaine injection. The effects of fluvoxamine coadministration were dependent on liver function. Lidocaine clearance was decreased on average by 60% (from 12.1 mL/min.kg to 4.85 mL/min.kg, P <.001) in healthy subjects and by 44% (from 9.83 mL/min.kg to 5.06 mL/min.kg, P <.001) in patients with mild liver dysfunction, with proportional increases in terminal half-lives, whereas virtually no effect was produced in patients with severe liver dysfunction (4.21 mL/min.kg versus 3.65 mL/min.kg, P >.05). Analogous effects were observed on MEGX and GX formation kinetics, which were drastically impaired in healthy subjects and patients with mild liver cirrhosis but virtually unaffected in patients with severe cirrhosis. CYP1A2 is the enzyme principally responsible for the metabolic disposition of lidocaine in subjects with normal liver function. The extent of fluvoxamine-lidocaine interaction decreases as liver function worsens, most likely because of the concomitant decrease in the hepatic level of CYP1A2. These observations indicate that results obtained in healthy subjects cannot be extended a priori to patients with liver dysfunction, but the clinical consequences of inhibition of drug metabolism must also be assessed in such patients.
8738764	Determination of urinary metabolites of caffeine for the assessment of cytochrome P4501A2, xanthine oxidase, and N-acetyltransferase activity in humans.	Caffeine metabolism via the 3-demethylation pathway is sequentially catalyzed by cytochrome P4501A2 (CYP1A2), xanthine oxidase, and N-acetyltransferase. The activities of the three enzymes can be estimated from urinary metabolic ratios of four caffeine metabolites, 5-acetylamino-6-formylamino-3-methyluracil (AFMU), 1-methyluric acid (1MU), 1-methylxanthine (1MX), and 1,7-dimethyluric acid (17DMU), after the ingestion of caffeine. A method for quantitation of the four metabolites in human urine has been developed. The method is based on a one-step extraction with ethyl acetate/2-propanol followed by high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection. The detection limit was 1 microM for AFMU, 1MU, and 1MX and 2 microM for 17DMU. The intraday and interday coefficients of variation were < 3% and < 7%, respectively, and the accuracy was within +/- 3%. The method was employed in a population study of 277 healthy volunteers, each of whom ingested 200 mg caffeine and provided a urine sample approximately 6 h later. The metabolite concentration ranges in the urines were 2.1-327 microM, 4.0-744 microM, 4.9-598 microM, and 6.4-260 microM for AFMU, 1MU, 1MX, and 17DMU, respectively. The CYP1A2 ratio (AFMU + 1MU + 1MX/17DMU) was significantly lower in women than in men, excluding smokers and oral contraceptive users. The CYP1A2 ratio was higher in smokers than in nonsmokers, confirming the induction of CYP1A2 by smoking. In women using oral contraceptives, the CYP1A2 ratio was, as expected, significantly lower than in women not using oral contraceptives. For the N-acetyltransferase ratio (AFMU/1MX) and the xanthine oxidase ratio (1MU/1MX), no differences were seen in terms of sex, smoking habits, or the use of oral contraceptives. All results are in agreement with previous reports on CYP1A2, N-acetyltransferase, and xanthine oxidase activities in humans. Thus, the method is both analytically and biologically reliable for the assessment of CYP1A2, N-acetyltransferase, and xanthine oxidase in humans.
18570312	Determination of cyclophosphamide enantiomers in plasma by LC-MS/MS: Application to pharmacokinetics in breast cancer and lupus nephritis patients.	This article describes the enantioselective analysis of cyclophosphamide (CPA) in human plasma using LC-MS/MS. CPA enantiomers were extracted from plasma using a mixture of ethyl acetate and chloroform (75:25, v/v). The enantiomers were separated on a Chiralcel(R) OD-R column, with the mobile phase consisting of a mixture of acetonitrile and water (75:25, v/v) plus 0.2% formic acid. The protonated ions and their respective product ions were monitored using two functions, 261 > 141 for CPA enantiomers and 189 > 104 for the internal standard (antipyrine). Recovery rates were higher than 95% and the quantification limit was 2.5-ng/ml plasma for both enantiomers. The coefficients of variation and the relative errors obtained for the validation of intra- and interassay precision and accuracy were less than 10%. The method was applied for the investigation of the enantioselective pharmacokinetics of CPA in a lupus nephritis patient treated with 1 g CPA infused over 2 h and in a breast cancer patient treated with 0.9 g infused over 1 h. No stereoselectivity in the pharmacokinetic parameters was observed for either patient. Clearance values of 2.63 and 2.93 l/h and of 3.36 and 3.61 l/h for (-)-(S) and (+)-(R)-CPA were obtained for the breast cancer and lupus nephritis patient, respectively.
15371987	Diminishing the risk of nonrelapse mortality in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: Prediction of exposure to the cyclophosphamide metabolite carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard.	Our objectives were (1) to develop a population pharmacokinetic model for cyclophosphamide, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, and carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard (a reporter for nonrelapse mortality) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation patients and (2) to validate a Bayesian approach to dosing. In this study 147 patients received intravenous infusions of 60 mg. kg -1. d -1 cyclophosphamide for 2 days, followed by 12 to 14.4 Gy total body irradiation. A population model was developed to fit concentration-time data of cyclophosphamide and metabolites. Bayesian prediction of the area under the curve (AUC) was validated by dividing the data set into an index set (98 patients) and validation set (49 patients). Parameters from the index data set were used as priors. Cyclophosphamide elimination was best described by noninducible and inducible routes producing 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide. Induction was described by a zero-order maximum fold of induction-type increase in enzyme level. The prediction of the AUC of carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard was clinically accurate and precise (mean prediction error = -3.5% and root mean squared prediction error = 12.2%) with data limited to 5 to 6 points obtained in the first 16 hours. However, the AUC of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide was overestimated (mean prediction error = 16.9%-23.6%). Several alternative models did not improve the result. The integrated mechanism-based model describes the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard. Accurate modeling of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide is limited by its chemical instability. Exposure to carboxyethylphosphoramide mustard could be accurately and precisely predicted with minimal data obtained over a 16-hour period after the first dose, offering the potential of pharmacokinetically guided dosing to reduce the nonrelapse mortality rate.
1496825	Metabolism of coumarin by rat, gerbil and human liver microsomes.	1. o-Hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde was the major metabolite of coumarin (1 mM) in rat, gerbil and human liver microsomes. 2. Treatment of rats with phenobarbitone (PB) or beta-naphthoflavone increased the o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde formed. 3-Hydroxycoumarin was the other main metabolite produced by rat liver microsomes. 3. Liver microsomal metabolism of coumarin in gerbil was extensive with 3-, 5-, 6-, 7- and 8-hydroxycoumarins, and 3,7- and 6,7-dihydroxycoumarins produced, in addition to o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde. The profile of the hydroxy metabolites was altered by in vivo treatment of gerbils with cytochrome P-450 inducers, but there was no increase of coumarin metabolism. 4. Coumarin was metabolized by human liver microsomes to o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde, 7-hydroxycoumarin, 3-hydroxycoumarin, and trace amounts of 5-, 6- and 8-hydroxycoumarins. 5. At low substrate concentrations (0-10 microM) hepatic microsomal metabolism of coumarin in gerbil resembled that in man, with 7-hydroxycoumarin being a major metabolite. However, the production of o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde was greater in gerbil than human liver microsomes. 6. At higher substrate concentrations (1 mM) metabolism of coumarin by liver microsomes from PB-treated gerbils most closely resembled that by human liver microsomes. 7. The gerbil would appear to be a more appropriate animal model than rat for studies to assess the toxicological hazard of coumarin for man.
16581945	Quinacrine is mainly metabolized to mono-desethyl quinacrine by CYP3A4/5 and its brain accumulation is limited by P-glycoprotein.	Quinacrine (QA), an antimalarial drug used for over seven decades, has been found to have potent antiprion activity in vitro. To determine whether QA can be used to treat prion diseases, we investigated its metabolism and ability to traverse the blood-brain barrier in mice. In vitro and in vivo, we identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry the major metabolic pathway of QA as N-desethylation and compared our results with an authentic reference compound. The major human cytochrome (P450) isoforms involved in QA mono-desethylation were identified as CYP3A4/5 by using specific chemical and antibody inhibition as well as cDNA-expressed P450 studies. QA transport from the basolateral to apical side in multidrug resistance protein 1 gene (MDR1)-transfected Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells was markedly greater than in control MDCK cells and was inhibited by the potent P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inhibitor GG918 (N-(4-[2-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6,7-dimethoxy-2-iso-1-quinolynyl)-ethyl]-phenyl)-9,10-dihydro-5-methoxy-9-oxo-4-acridine carboxamine). In MDR1-knockout (KO) mice, QA brain levels were 6 to 9 times higher after a single i.v. dose of 2 mg/kg QA and 49 times higher after multiple oral doses of 10 mg/kg/day QA for 7 days, compared with those in wild-type (WT) FVB mice. In contrast, the QA levels in plasma, liver, spleen, and kidney were similar after a single 2 mg/kg i.v. dose and <2 times greater after 10 mg/kg oral doses in MDR1-KO mice compared with WT mice. These results indicate that P-gp plays a critical role in transporting QA from the brain.
15294457	Fenproporex N-dealkylation to amphetamine--enantioselective in vitro studies in human liver microsomes as well as enantioselective in vivo studies in Wistar and Dark Agouti rats.	Fenproporex (FP) is known to be N-dealkylated to R(-)-amphetamine (AM) and S(+)-amphetamine. Involvement of the polymorphic cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoform CYP2D6 in metabolism of such amphetamine precursors is discussed controversially in literature. In this study, the human hepatic CYPs involved in FP dealkylation were identified using recombinant CYPs and human liver microsomes (HLM). These studies revealed that not only CYP2D6 but also CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 catalyzed this metabolic reaction for both enantiomers with slight preference for the S(+)-enantiomer. Formation of amphetamine was not significantly changed by quinidine and was not different in poor metabolizer HLM compared to pooled HLM. As in vivo experiments, blood levels of R(-)-amphetamine and S(+)-amphetamine formed after administration of FP were determined in female Dark Agouti rats (fDA), a model of the human CYP2D6 poor metabolizer phenotype (PM), male Dark Agouti rats (mDA), an intermediate model, and in male Wistar rats (WI), a model of the human CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer phenotype. Analysis of the plasma samples showed that fDA exhibited significantly higher plasma levels of both amphetamine enantiomers compared to those of WI. Corresponding plasma levels in mDA were between those in fDA and WI. Furthermore, pretreatment of WI with the CYP2D inhibitor quinine resulted in significantly higher amphetamine plasma levels, which did not significantly differ from those in fDA. The in vivo studies suggested that CYP2D6 is not crucial to the N-dealkylation but to another metabolic step, most probably to the ring hydroxylation. Further studies are necessary for elucidating the role of CYP2D6 in FP hydroxylation.
1311943	Azoles, allylamines and drug metabolism.	Four antifungal drugs, the azoles ketoconazole, itraconazole and fluconazole, and the allylamine terbinafine, were studied for their effects on the metabolism of cyclosporin A (CyA) and cortisol by human liver microsomes in vitro (n = 3). Ketoconazole produced marked inhibition of CyA hydroxylase (to metabolites M17 and M1) with IC50 and Ki values of 0.24 +/- 0.01 and 0.022 +/- 0.004 microM, respectively. On the basis of the IC50, itraconazole was 10 times less potent (IC50 of 2.2 +/- 0.2 microM), and fluconazole and terbinafine were each above 100 microM. No kinetic parameters were calculated for terbinafine because of the lack of inhibitory effects. Ketoconazole was the most potent inhibitor of cortisol metabolism (to 6 beta-hydroxycortisol, IC50 = 0.6 microM). Itraconazole produced marked inhibition of cortisol metabolism (IC50 = 2.4 microM), but fluconazole and terbinafine had little effect. These data confirm that ketoconazole is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P-450-IIIA4, and this has clinical relevance. Although the inhibition with fluconazole was much less than with itraconazole at equimolar concentrations, it should be noted that in-vivo plasma concentrations of fluconazole are much greater than that of itraconazole. Clinical interactions of CyA with both fluconazole and itraconazole have been reported; in contrast to these azoles, terbinafine does not have the same interaction potential.
17108060	Effects of green tea compounds on irinotecan metabolism.	The effects of green tea compounds on the metabolism of irinotecan have never been investigated. We aimed to study whether catechins [(-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), (-)-epicatechin gallate (ECG), (-)-epigallocatechin (EGC), (-)-epicatechin] affect the inactivation metabolism of irinotecan into 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(1-piperidino)-1-amino]carbonyloxycamptothecin (NPC) (by CYP3A4) and 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) into 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin glucuronide (SN-38G) (by UGT1A1). Human liver microsomes, hepatocytes and Hep G2 cells were incubated with catechins and treated with irinotecan and/or SN-38. NPC and SN-38G formation was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. UGT1A1 mRNA levels were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction. In human liver microsomes, a concentration-dependent decrease in the formation of NPC and SN-38G was observed. In human hepatocytes, a significant increase in SN-38G production was observed in 33% (EGCG), 44% (ECG), and 44% (EGC) of the hepatocyte preparations. Phenobarbital increased the formation of SN-38G in 100% of the same hepatocyte preparations. In Hep G2 cells, no increase in SN-38G formation was observed. With the exception of ECG in one liver, catechins did not increase UGT1A1 mRNA levels. NPC production was also significantly increased in 40% of the hepatocyte preparations for each catechin. However, the production of 6beta-hydroxytestosterone remained unaffected in other hepatocyte preparations. At pharmacologically relevant concentrations, catechins are unlikely to inhibit the formation of irinotecan inactive metabolites when administered concomitantly. The induction effect of catechins on UGT1A1 seems to be modest and highly variable. Catechins do not induce CYP3A4 activity. The effect of acute and prolonged use of green tea on the pharmacokinetics of irinotecan in patients remains to be evaluated.
21346002	Metabolism of the c-Fos/activator protein-1 inhibitor T-5224 by multiple human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms.	We developed 3-{5-[4-(cyclopentyloxy)-2-hydroxybenzoyl]-2-[(3-hydroxy-1,2-benzisoxazol-6-yl)methoxy]phenyl} propionic acid (T-5224) as a novel inhibitor of the c-Fos/activator protein-1 for rheumatoid arthritis therapy. We predicted the metabolism of T-5224 in humans by using human liver microsomes (HLM), human intestinal microsomes (HIM), recombinant human cytochrome P450 (P450), and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). T-5224 was converted to its acyl O-glucuronide (G2) by UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 and to its hydroxyl O-glucuronide (G3) by several UGTs, but it was not metabolized by the P450s. A comparison of the intrinsic clearances (CL(int)) between HLM and HIM suggested that the glucuronidation of T-5224 occurs predominantly in the liver. UGT1A1 showed a higher k(cat)/K(m) value than UGT1A3 for G2 formation, but a lower k(cat)/K(m) value than UGT1A3 for G3 formation. A high correlation was observed between G2 formation activity and UGT1A1-specific activity (-estradiol 3-glucuronidation) in seven individual HLM. A high correlation was also observed between G2 formation activity and UGT1A1 content in the HLM. These results strongly suggest that UGT1A1 is responsible for G2 formation in human liver. In contrast, no such correlation was observed with G3 formation, suggesting that multiple UGT isoforms, including UGT1A1 and UGT1A3, are involved in G3 formation. G2 is also observed in rat and monkey liver microsomes as a major metabolite of T-5224, suggesting that G2 is not a human-specific metabolite. In this study, we obtained useful information on the metabolism of T-5224 for its clinical use.
15784286	Neurosteroids: metabolism in human intestine microsomes.	Both dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and epiandrosterone (EpiA) are substrate for cytochrome P450 species and enzymes that produce 7alpha- and 7beta-hydroxylated metabolites in the brain and other organs. In contrast to DHEA and EpiA, the 7-hydroxylated derivatives were shown to mediate neuroprotection, and 7beta-hydroxy-EpiA was the most potent. The suggested use of any of these steroids as drugs administered per os for neuroprotection requires the assessment of their metabolism in the human intestine and liver. To achieve this, we produced radio-labeled 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA, 7beta-hydroxy-DHEA, 7alpha-hydroxy-EpiA and 7beta-hydroxy-EpiA that were used as substrates in incubations with human intestine microsomes supplemented with reduced or oxidized cofactors. Identity of the radio-labeled metabolites obtained was determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after comparison with authentic steroid references. The proportions of metabolites produced resulted from their radioactivity contents. The only metabolite obtained with DHEA, EpiA, 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA and 7beta-hydroxy-DHEA substrates was its 17beta-reduced derivative, thus inferring the presence of 17beta-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductases in the human intestine microsomes. In addition to the 7alpha-hydroxy-EpiA and 7beta-hydroxy-EpiA substrates, their 17beta-reduced metabolites were obtained with 7beta-hydroxy-EpiA and 7alpha-hydroxy-EpiA, respectively. The identity of the enzyme responsible for the 7alpha-hydroxy-EpiA/7beta-hydroxy-EpiA inter-conversion is unknown. The incubation conditions used produced these metabolites in low but significant yields that suggest their presence in the portal blood before access to the liver.
21622625	Colonic catabolism of ellagitannins, ellagic acid, and raspberry anthocyanins: in vivo and in vitro studies.	Red raspberries contain principally anthocyanins and ellagitannins. After ingestion of raspberries by humans, trace levels of anthocyanins, absorbed in the upper gastrointestinal tract, are excreted in urine in amounts corresponding to <0.1% of intake. Urine also contains urolithin-O-glucuronides derived from colonic metabolism of the ellagitannins. Raspberry feedings with ileostomists show that substantial amounts of the anthocyanin and ellagitannin intake are excreted in ileal fluid. In subjects with an intact functioning colon, these compounds would pass to the large intestine. The aim of this study was to identify raspberry-derived phenolic acid catabolites that form in the colon and those that are subsequently excreted in urine. In vitro anaerobic incubation of ellagitannins with fecal suspensions demonstrated conversion to ellagic acid and several urolithins. Fecal suspensions converted 80% of added ellagic acid to urolithins. In vivo, urolithins are excreted in urine as O-glucuronides, not aglycones, indicating that the colonic microflora convert ellagitannins to urolithins, whereas glucuronidation occurs in the wall of the large intestine and/or postabsorption in the liver. Unlike ellagitannins, raspberry anthocyanins were converted in vitro to phenolic acids by anaerobic fecal suspensions. Urinary excretion of phenolic acids after ingestion of raspberries indicates that after formation in the colon some phenolic acids undergo phase II metabolism, resulting in the formation of products that do not accumulate when anthocyanins are degraded in fecal suspensions. There is a growing realization that colonic catabolites such as phenolic acids and urolithins may have important roles in the protective effects of a fruit- and vegetable-rich diet.
11320665	Cyclophosphamide metabolism in children following a 1-h and a 24-h infusion.	The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of cyclophosphamide (CPA) when given as a 1-h and a 24-h infusion to children were compared. Thirteen children with a variety of different malignancies received an identical dose of cyclophosphamide as a 1- and 24-h infusion. In each case the concentration of CPA and its principal metabolites were measured by a thin-layer-chromatography-photographic-densitometry technique. Cyclophosphamide clearance was greater during the 24-h infusion, following time-dependent increases in the metabolism of the drug (autoinduction) (median 5.1 vs 3.1 l/h/m2: P = 0.037). Autoinduction was seen in five children (38%), producing a median end of infusion concentration of 49% (range 28-89%) of the maximum and was not accompanied by an increase in the production of the principal inactive metabolites carboxyphosphamide and dechloroethylcyclophosphamide. These results suggest potential benefits of prolonging the infusion of CPA in clinical practice.
14659450	Selective and sensitive liquid chromatographic assay of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in whole blood spotted on filter paper.	We have developed a sensitive, selective and reproducible reversed-phase HPLC method with ultraviolet detection (340 nm) for the simultaneous quantification of amodiaquine (AQ) and its major metabolite, desethylamodiaquine (AQm) in a small volume (200 microl) of whole blood spotted on filter paper. The method involves liquid-liquid extraction with diethyl ether followed by elution from a reversed-phase phenyl column with an acidic (pH 2.8) mobile phase (25 mM KH2PO4-methanol; 80:20% (v/v) +1% (v/v) triethylamine). Calibration curves in spiked whole blood were linear from 100-2500 ng/ml (r2 > or = 0.99) for AQ and 200-2500 ng/ml (r2 > or = 0.99) for AQm. The limit of detection was 5 ng for AQ and 10 ng for AQm. The relative recovery at 150 ng/ml of AQ (n = 6) was 84.0% and at 300 ng/ml of AQm the relative recovery was 74.3%. The intra-assay coefficients of variation at 150, 600 and 2250 ng/ml of AQ and 300, 600 and 2250 ng/ml of AQm were 7.7, 8.9 and 6.2% (AQ) and 10.1, 5.4 and 3.9% (AQm), respectively. The inter-assay coefficient of variation at 150, 600 and 2250 ng/ml of AQ and 300, 600 and 2250 ng/ml of AQm were 5.2, 8.1 and 6.9% (AQ) and 3.3, 2.3 and 4.6% (AQm). There was no interference from other commonly used antimalarial and antipyretic drugs (chloroquine, quinine, sulfadoxine, pyrimethamine, artesunate, acetaminophen and salicylate). The method is particularly suitable for pharmacokinetic studies in settings where facilities for storing blood/plasma samples are not available.
20076952	Effects of itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of intravenously and orally administered oxycodone.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP34A) inhibitor itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of orally and intravenously administered oxycodone. Twelve healthy subjects were administered 200 mg itraconazole or placebo orally for 5 days in a four-session paired cross-over study. On day 4, oxycodone was administered intravenously (0.1 mg/kg) in the first part of the study and orally (10 mg) in the second part. Plasma concentrations of oxycodone and its oxidative metabolites were measured for 48 h, and pharmacodynamic effects were evaluated. Itraconazole decreased plasma clearance (Cl) and increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC0-infinity) of intravenous oxycodone by 32 and 51%, respectively (P<0.001) and increased the AUC(0-infinity) of orally administrated oxycodone by 144% (P<0.001). Most of the pharmacokinetic changes in oral oxycodone were seen in the elimination phase, with modest effects by itraconazole on its peak concentration, which was increased by 45% (P=0.009). The AUC(0-48) of noroxycodone was decreased by 49% (P<0.001) and that of oxymorphone was increased by 359% (P<0.001) after the administration of oral oxycodone. The pharmacologic effects of oxycodone were enhanced by itraconazole only modestly. Itraconazole increased the exposure to oxycodone by inhibiting its CYP3A4-mediated N-demethylation. The clinical use of itraconazole in patients receiving multiple doses of oxycodone for pain relief may increase the risk of opioid-associated adverse effects.
16766719	The novel, orally active, delta opioid RWJ-394674 is biotransformed to the potent mu opioid RWJ-413216.	Although the mu opioid receptor is the primary target of marketed opioid analgesics, several studies suggest the advantageous effect of combinations of mu and delta opioids. The novel compound RWJ-394674 [N,N-diethyl-4-[(8-phenethyl-8-azabicyclo]3.2.1]oct-3-ylidene)-phenylmethyl]-benzamide]; bound with high affinity to the delta opioid receptor (0.2 nM) and with weaker affinity to the mu opioid receptor (72 nM). 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]-thio)triphosphate binding assay demonstrated its delta agonist function. Surprisingly given this pharmacologic profile, RWJ-394674 exhibited potent oral antinociception (ED(50) = 10.5 micromol/kg or 5 mg/kg) in the mouse hot-plate (48 degrees C) test and produced a moderate Straub tail. Antagonist studies in the more stringent 55 degrees C hot-plate test demonstrated the antinociception produced by RWJ-394674 to be sensitive to the nonselective opioid antagonist naloxone as well as to the delta- and mu-selective antagonists, naltrindole and beta-funaltrexamine, respectively. In vitro studies demonstrated that RWJ-394674 was metabolized by hepatic microsomes to its N-desethyl analog, RWJ-413216 [N-ethyl-4-[(8-phenethyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-ylidene)-phenylmethyl]-benzamide], which, in contrast to RWJ-394674, had a high affinity for the mu rather than the delta opioid receptor and was an agonist at both. Pharmacokinetic studies in the rat revealed that oral administration of RWJ-394674 rapidly gave rise to detectable plasma levels of RWJ-413216, which reached levels equivalent to those of RWJ-394674 by 1 h. RWJ-413216 itself demonstrated a potent oral antinociceptive effect. Thus, RWJ-394674 is a delta opioid receptor agonist that appears to augment its antinociceptive effect through biotransformation to a novel mu opioid receptor-selective agonist.
20668249	Metabolism and disposition of [14C]BMS-690514, an ErbB/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitor, after oral administration to humans.	(3R,4R)-4-Amino-1-((4-((3-methoxyphenyl)amino)pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-5-yl)methyl)-3-piperidinol (BMS-690514), an oral selective inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptors 1 (or epidermal growth factor receptor), 2, and 4, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2, and 3, is being developed as a treatment for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer. The disposition of [(14)C]BMS-690514 was investigated in nine healthy male subjects (group 1, n = 6; group 2, n = 3) after oral administration of a 200-mg dose. Urine, feces, and plasma were collected from all subjects for up to 12 days postdose. In group 2 subjects, bile was collected from 3 to 8 h postdose. Across groups, approximately 50 and 34% of administered radioactivity was recovered in the feces and urine, respectively. An additional 16% was recovered in the bile of group 2 subjects. Less than 28% of the dose was recovered as parent drug in the combined excreta, suggesting that BMS-690514 was highly metabolized. BMS-690514 was rapidly absorbed (median time of maximum observed concentration 0.5 h) with the absorbed fraction estimated to be approximately 50 to 68%. BMS-690514 represented 7.9% of the area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinite time of plasma radioactivity, indicating that the majority of the circulating radioactivity was from metabolites. BMS-690514 was metabolized via multiple oxidation reactions and direct glucuronidation. Circulating metabolites included a hydroxylated rearrangement product (M1), a direct ether glucuronide (M6), and multiple secondary glucuronide conjugates. None of these metabolites is expected to contribute to the pharmacology of BMS-690514. In summary, BMS-690514 was well absorbed and extensively metabolized via multiple metabolic pathways in humans, with excretion of drug-related radioactivity in both bile and urine.
21457144	In vitro and in vivo biodistribution of ZRS1, a stabilized type I N-acetoxymethyl carbamate-containing combi-molecule.	Combi-molecules are agents designed to block receptors on their own and to further degrade to bioactive agents. Here we studied the fate of a novel combi-molecule of triazene class termed "ZRS1" in biological medium using multilayer aggregates and mouse tumour models. ZRS1 is a second generation derivative of RB107, a prodrug designed to release an EGFR inhibitor FD105 plus a methyl diazonium species. RB107 contains an acetoxymethyl function that is hydrolyzed too rapidly to generate BJ2000, a monoalkyltriazene that further degrades to FD105 and DNA alkylating methyldiazonium species. Recently, in order to prevent rapid hydrolysis of the acetoxymethylene function in the absence of cells and to delay the release of BJ2000, we designed ZRS1 that contains a more stable acetoxymethyl carbamate function. The results showed that ZRS1 was more stable than RB107 in cell culture medium supplemented with serum, with a rather long half life (>2 h). However, in an experiment where it was allowed to degrade in multilayer aggregates of ovarian cancer cells OV90, it rapidly released BJ2000 and its corresponding metabolite FD105, both in the medium and the multilayer aggregates. Interestingly, the intact ZRS1 could be detected in the multilayer aggregates with a T(max) around 10 min. Studies in vivo, in human DU145 prostate cancer xenograft model, revealed that ZRS1 blocked tumour growth and released FD105 and its acetylated metabolite FD105Ac, the latter being the major metabolite. Likewise, time course analysis in 4T1 mouse syngeneic breast cancer model showed a rapid release of FD105 and FD105Ac in the plasma and in the tumours. In summary, ZRS1 appeared as a good prodrug of the stable EGFR inhibitory metabolites FD105 and FD105Ac. Its ability to generate high concentrations of FD105Ac, a more potent EGFR inhibitor as is its major metabolite, is significant over previous methylating combi-molecules. Furthermore, this study showed that multilayer OV90 aggregates could be developed as an effective model to predict the stability and degradation of ZRS1 in vivo.
11321299	High-performance liquid chromatography linked to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and orthogonal acceleration time-of-flight mass spectrometry for the simultaneous detection and identification of metabolites of 2-bromo-4-trifluoromethyl.	The use of HPLC coupled to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) and orthogonal acceleration time-of-flight (oa-TOF) for the profiling, identification, and quantification of metabolites in rat urine following the administration of 2-bromo-4-trifluoromethylacetanilide is described. The metabolites present in the sample were separated by reversed-phase gradient chromatography with UV-diode array detection. The bulk of the eluent (90%) from the UV detector was directed to an ICPMS where bromine-containing metabolites were detected and quantified using ICPMS. The minor portion of the eluent (10%) was taken for oa-TOFMS for identification. By these means, the metabolites were identified as sulfate and glucuronide conjugates of a ring hydroxy-substituted metabolite, a N-sulfate, a N-hydroxylamine glucuronide, and N- and N-hydroxyglucuronides.
16675507	Diagnostic performance of urinary resveratrol metabolites as a biomarker of moderate wine consumption.	Nutritional biomarkers may be better measures of dietary exposure than self-reported dietary data. We evaluated resveratrol metabolites, potential biomarkers of wine consumption, in humans after moderate consumption of sparkling, white, or red wines. We performed 2 randomized, crossover trials and a cohort study. In the first study, 10 healthy men consumed 30 g of ethanol/day as sparkling wine or gin for 28 days. In the second trial, 10 healthy women consumed 20 g of ethanol/day as white or red wine for 28 days. We also evaluated 52 participants in a study on the effects of a Mediterranean diet on primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (the PREDIMED Study). We used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to analyze urinary total resveratrol metabolites (TRMs) and predictive values and ROC curve analyses to assess the diagnostic accuracy. We observed significant increases in TRMs [72.4 (95% confidence interval, 48.5-96.2; P = 0.005), 211.5 (166.6-256.3; P = 0.005), and 560.5 nmol/g creatinine (244.9-876.1; P = 0.005)] after consumption of sparkling, white, or red wine, respectively, but no changes after the washout or gin periods. In the cohort study, the reported daily dose of wine consumption correlated directly with TRMs (r = 0.654; P < 0.001). Using a cutoff of 90 nmol/g, we were able to use TRMs to differentiate wine consumers from abstainers with a sensitivity of 72% (60%-84%); and a specificity of 94% (87%-100%). Resveratrol metabolites in urine may be useful biomarkers of wine intake in epidemiologic and intervention studies.
17988456	Rapid quantification of urinary oxycodone and oxymorphone using fast gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Human urine specimens that were determined to be presumptively positive for oxycodone and its metabolite, oxymorphone, by immunoassay screening were assayed using fast gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to positively identify and quantify the oxycodone and oxymorphone present. Urine specimens were first spiked with deuterated internal standards, oxycodone-d(3) and oxymorphone-d(3), subjected to acid hydrolysis, and then extracted using a positive-pressure manifold and mixed-bed solid-phase cartridge extraction methodology. Extracts were derivatized using methoxylamine and acetic anhydride. The acetylated-oxime derivatives of oxycodone and oxymorphone were identified and quantified using a selective ion monitoring (SIM). The method was found to be linear for both analytes to 1600 ng/mL, and limits of detection for oxycodone and oxymorphone were found to be 40 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL, respectively. Interlaboratory data comparisons (n = 40) showed correlation coefficients of 0.9999 and 0.9997 for oxycodone and oxymorphone, respectively. Twelve semisynthetic, structurally similar compounds at concentrations of 5000 ng/mL were assayed in the presence of oxycodone and oxymorphone and found not to interfere with identification and quantitation by this method. Finally, exact mass and tandem mass spectrometry techniques were employed to elucidate the structures of the SIM ions.
18486571	Development of an analytical method to confirm toxic trimethylated tin in human urine.	Dimethyltin dichloride (DMTC) is widely used as a heat stabilizer in manufacturing the polyvinyl chloride. We previously reported a case of acute DMTC poisoning with neurological manifestations very similar to trimethylated tin (TMT) encephalopathy, based on results of speciation analysis of methylated tins in the patient's urine with use of a combination of high performance liquid chromatography and inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS), which yielded peaks corresponding to DMT and TMT. In this study, we developed an analytical method to confirm TMT in urine using high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS), and found TMT molecular ion in the patient's urine.
17725888	Method for quantification of opioids and their metabolites in autopsy blood by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	A method using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry was developed and validated for the determination of morphine, codeine, hydromorphone, dihydrocodeine, oxycodone, buprenorphine, and naloxone with their metabolites morphine-3-glucuronide, morphine-6-glucuronide, normorphine, 6-acetylmorphine, 6-acetylcodeine, codeine-6-glucuronide, norcodeine, hydromorphine-3-glucuronide, dihydrocodeine-6-glucuronide, dihydromorphine, dihydromorphine-3-glucuronide, dihydromorphine-6-glucuronide, oxymorphone, norbuprenorphine, buprenorphine-3-glucuronide, norbuprenorphine-3-glucuronide, and naloxone-3-glucuronide in human whole blood. Polar metabolites (glucuronides) and other analytes were extracted by SPE using Bond Elut C18. Chromatographic separation was performed on a Phenomenex Synergi reversed-phase column with gradient elution based on a mobile phase consisting of 10mM ammonium formate adjusted to pH 3 and acetonitrile. Intraday and interday precision for all analytes were between 0.6% and 13.8%, and recoveries were between 80.3% and 101.4%. Calibration curves were linear for all analytes over the concentration range 5-400 ng/mL, and correlation coefficients (R(2)) were better than 0.999. Limits of detection and quantitation were 0.16-1.2 ng/mL and 0.5-4.09 ng/mL, respectively. The method described consolidates previous work on opioids and their metabolites published in the literature and is the first to include the detection of naloxone-3-glucuronide. The method has been applied in routine postmortem cases after opiate overdose with the threefold purpose of providing interpretive information on the cause and type of death (rapid, sub-acute, or delayed death) and to distinguish heroin, morphine, and codeine users.
17327293	Inhibition of HIV-1 replication in macrophages by a heterodinucleotide of lamivudine and tenofovir.	(i) To generate a new heterodinucleotide (3TCpPMPA) comprising the drugs lamivudine and tenofovir which have been shown to act synergistically and (ii) to protect macrophages from 'de novo' HIV-1-infection through its administration. 3TCpPMPA was obtained by coupling the morpholidate derivative of tenofovir with the mono n-tri-butylammonium salt of lamivudine 5'-monophosphate. Stability and metabolism were evaluated in vitro and in vivo in mice. 3TCpPMPA was encapsulated into autologous erythrocytes by a procedure of hypotonic dialysis, isotonic resealing and reannealing. 3TCpPMPA-loaded erythrocytes were modified to increase their phagocytosis by human macrophages. Macrophages were infected by HIV-1(Ba-L) and inhibition of HIV-1 replication was assessed by HIV p24(gag) quantification. Pharmacokinetic studies in mice revealed a rapid disappearance of the heterodinucleotide from circulation (t(1/2)=15 min) without any advantage compared with the administration of single drugs. Adding free 3TCpPMPA to macrophages (18 h), a 90% inhibition of viral replication up to 35 days post-treatment was achieved, while only a 60% inhibition was obtained by the combined treatment 3TC and (R)PMPA. When 3TCpPMPA was selectively targeted to the macrophage compartment by a single addition of loaded erythrocytes, the protection of macrophages from 'de novo' infection (99% protection 3 weeks post-treatment) was nearly complete. Erythrocytes loaded with 3TCpPMPA and modified to increase their phagocytosis are able to protect macrophages from 'de novo' HIV-1 infection. 3TCpPMPA acts as an efficient antiviral pro-drug that, once inside macrophages, can be slowly converted into 3TCMP and (R)PMPA protecting these cells for a longer period of time.
15778010	Inhibition of human cytochrome P450 enzymes by the natural hepatotoxin safrole.	The hepatotoxin, safrole is a methylenedioxy phenyl compound, found in sassafras oil and certain other essential oils. Recombinant cytochrome P450 (CYP, P450) and human liver microsomes were studied to investigate the selective inhibitory effects of safrole on human P450 enzymes and the mechanisms of action. Using Escherichia coli-expressed human P450, our results demonstrated that safrole was a non-selective inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 in the IC(50) order CYP2E1 < CYP1A2 < CYP2A6 < CYP3A4 < CYP2D6. Safrole strongly inhibited CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP2E1 activities with IC(50) values less than 20 microM. Safrole caused competitive, non-competitive, and non-competitive inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2A6 and CYP2E1 activities, respectively. The inhibitor constants were in the order CYP1A2 < CYP2E1 < CYP2A6. In human liver microsomes, 50 microM safrole strongly inhibited 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation, coumarin hydroxylation, and chlorzoxazone hydroxylation activities. These results revealed that safrole was a potent inhibitor of human CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP2E1. With relatively less potency, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 were also inhibited.
11714482	Prediction of isoprene diepoxide levels in vivo in mouse, rat and man using enzyme kinetic data in vitro and physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modelling.	The present study was designed to explain the differences in isoprene toxicity between mouse and rat based on the liver concentrations of the assumed toxic metabolite isoprene diepoxide. In addition, extrapolation to the human situation was attempted. For this purpose, enzyme kinetic parameters K(m) and V(max) were determined in vitro in mouse, rat and human liver microsomes/cytosol for the cytochrome P450-mediated formation of isoprene mono- and diepoxides, epoxide hydrolase mediated hydrolysis of isoprene mono- and diepoxides, and the glutathione S-transferases mediated conjugation of isoprene monoepoxides. Subsequently, the kinetic parameters were incorporated into a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model, and species differences regarding isoprene diepoxide levels were forecasted. Almost similar isoprene diepoxide liver and lung concentrations were predicted in mouse and rat, while predicted levels in humans were about 20-fold lower. However, when interindividual variation in enzyme activity was introduced in the human model, the levels of isoprene diepoxide changed considerably. It was forecasted that in individuals having both an extensive oxidation by cytochrome P450 and a low detoxification by epoxide hydrolase, isoprene diepoxide concentrations in the liver increased to similar concentrations as predicted for the mouse. However, the interpretation of the latter finding for human risk assessment is ambiguous since species differences between mouse and rat regarding isoprene toxicity could not be explained by the predicted isoprene diepoxide concentrations. We assume that other metabolites than isoprene diepoxide or different carcinogenic response might play a key role in determining the extent of isoprene toxicity. In order to confirm this, in vivo experiments are required in which isoprene epoxide concentrations will be established in rats and mice.
17959153	JNK inhibitor SP600125 is a partial agonist of human aryl hydrocarbon receptor and induces CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes in primary human hepatocytes.	SP600125, a specific inhibitor of c-Jun-N-Terminal kinase (JNK), was reported as a ligand and antagonist of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) [Joiakim A, Mathieu PA, Palermo C, Gasiewicz TA, Reiners Jr JJ. The Jun N terminal kinase inhibitor SP600125 is a ligand and antagonist of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Drug Metab Dispos 2003;31(11):1279-82]. Here we show that SP600125 is not an antagonist but a partial agonist of human AhR. SP600125 significantly induced CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 mRNAs in primary human hepatocytes and CYP1A1 mRNA in human hepatoma cells HepG2. This effect was abolished by resveratrol, an antagonist of AhR. Consistent with the recent report, SP600125 dose-dependently inhibited CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes induction by a prototype AhR ligand 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in human hepatocytes. Moreover, SP600125 displayed typical behavior of a partial agonist in HepG2 cells transiently transfected with a reporter plasmid containing two inverted repeats of the dioxin responsive element or with a plasmid containing 5'-flanking region of human CYP1A1 gene. SP600125 transactivated the reporter plasmids with EC(50) of 0.005 and 1.89 microM, respectively. On the other hand, TCDD-dependent transactivation of the reporter plasmids was inhibited by SP600125 with IC(50) values of 1.54 and 2.63 microM, respectively. We also tested, whether the effects of SP600125 are due to metabolism. Using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry approach, we observed formation of two minor monohydroxylated metabolites of SP600125 in human hepatocytes, human liver microsomes but not in HepG2 cells. These data imply that biotransformation is not responsible for the effects of SP600125 on AhR signaling. In conclusion, we demonstrate that SP600125 is a partial agonist of human AhR, which induces CYP1A genes.
4078699	Metabolic fate of phenprocoumon in humans.	Samples of urine and feces were collected daily from a normal human volunteer who had received a dose of pseudoracemic phenprocoumon [an equimolar mixture of (R)-[12C]- and (S)-[2-13C]phenprocoumon] containing a tracer dose of 10 microCi of [14C]phenprocoumon and analyzed by TLC, HPLC, and GC-MS. After 25 days, 96% of the radiolabeled material was recovered (62.8% in urine and 33.3% in feces). By isotopic dilution and comparison to the Rf values, retention times, and mass fragmentograms of synthetic standards, the metabolites of the drug were identified as the 4'-, 6-, and 7-hydroxy analogues of phenprocoumon. Virtually all of the recovered radioactivity could be accounted for by the parent drug (approximately 40%) and the three metabolites (approximately 60%). The formation of both 4'-(8.1% of administered dose) and 7- (33.4% of administered dose) hydroxyphenprocoumon was highly stereoselective, giving S/R ratios of 2.86 and 1.69, respectively. The formation of 6- (15.5% of administered dose) hydroxyphenprocoumon showed little stereoselectivity (S/R ratio equal to 0.85). The urinary excretion pattern was also confirmed in four additional healthy male subjects who received a single oral dose of pseudoracemic phenprocoumon and whose urine was analyzed by GC-MS. All the drug-related materials (both hydroxylated metabolites and parent compound) that were excreted into the urine were extensively conjugated.
17676709	Simultaneous determination of atracurium and its metabolite laudanosine in post-mortem fluids by liquid chromatography/multiple-stage mass spectrometry on an ion trap.	A method was developed to accurately quantify atracurium (a non-depolarizing skeletal muscle relaxant) and its metabolite laudanosine in post-mortem specimens. Analytes were isolated from blood and tissues by liquid/liquid extraction after adding vecuronium as an internal standard. Chromatographic separation was accomplished by gradient elution in a Synergy Max RP 150 x 2.1 mm column. Positive ion electrospray ionization and mass spectrometric analyses were carried out in an ion trap mass spectrometer under collision-induced dissociation conditions. The method proved selective and sensitive, and was validated in post-mortem blood, heart, lung and liver in the range of 1-2000 ng/mL (blood) and 5-5000 ng/g (tissues); the limits of quantification obtained were 1 ng/mL in blood and 5 ng/g in tissues.
20698750	The effectiveness of oracin in enhancing the cytotoxicity of doxorubicin through the inhibition of doxorubicin deactivation in breast cancer MCF7 cells.	The maximal therapeutic doses of the cytostatic drug doxorubicin (DOX) are strictly limited by the development of systemic toxicity, especially cardiotoxicity. The inhibition of DOX-metabolizing enzymes within cancer cells is possible strategy to improve DOX efficacy. In breast cancer cells (MCF7), DOX is effectively deactivated by carbonyl reduction. The aim of the present study was to test whether isoquinoline derivative oracin (ORC) is able to inhibit DOX reductases and to enhance DOX cytotoxic efficacy. The kinetics studies of DOX reduction in MCF7 cytosolic fractions were evaluated using high-performance liquid chromatography. The cytotoxicity of DOX, ORC, and DOX+ORC combinations was assayed using cell-viability tests and caspases activities and monitored using xCELLigence System for real-time cell analysis. ORC significantly inhibited DOX reduction in MCF7 cytosol. Competitive inhibition was found. The viability was significantly lower in cells treated with ORC+DOX combinations in comparison to cells treated with DOX alone. Significant enhancement of DOX cytotoxicity was achieved already with 0.5 M ORC. DOX together with ORC was able to kill about 55% cells more than DOX alone. ORC significantly increases DOX efficacy in MCF7 cells probably due to the inhibition of DOX reductases.
15585365	Characterization of human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of a new H+/K+-ATPase inhibitor KR-60436.	KR-60436 ([1-(4-methoxy-2-methylphenyl)-4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-trifluoromethoxy-2,3-dihydropyrrolo [3,2-c]quinoline]) is a new reversible H+/K+-ATPase inhibitor. The isoforms of human liver cytochrome P450 (CYP) responsible for the hepatic transformation of KR-60436 is identified. Dihydropyrrole oxidation and O-demethylation are major pathways for the metabolism of KR-60436 in human liver microsomes, whereas N-dehydroxyethylation and hydroxylation are minor pathways. The specific CYP isozymes responsible for KR-60436 oxidation to four major metabolites, pyrrole-KR-60436, O-demethylpyrrole-KR-60436, N-dehydroxyethyl-KR-60436 and an active metabolite, O-demethyl-KR-60436 were identified using the combination of correlation analysis, immuno-inhibition, chemical inhibition in human liver microsomes and metabolism by expressed recombinant CYP enzymes. The inhibitory potency of KR-60436 on clinically major CYPs was investigated in human liver microsomes. The results show that CYP3A4 contributes to the oxidation of KR-60436 to pyrrole-KR-60436, O-demethylpyrrole-KR-60436 and N-dehydroxyethyl-KR-60436, and CYP2C9 and CYP2D6 play roles in demethylation of KR-60436 to form the active metabolite, O-demethyl-KR-60436. KR-60436 was found to inhibit potently the metabolism of CYP1A2 substrates.
12742115	Determination of a new atypical antipsychotic agent perospirone and its metabolite in human plasma by automated column-switching high-performance liquid chromatography.	A simple and sensitive column-switching high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method with fluorescence detection is described for the quantification of perospirone, a serotonin and dopamine antagonist, and its metabolite ID-15036 in human plasma. The test compounds were extracted from 2 ml of plasma using chloroform-hexane (30:70, v/v) and the extract was injected into a column I (TSK-PW precolumn, 10 micro m, 35 x 4.6 mm I.D.) for clean-up and column II (C(18) STR ODS-II analytical column, 5 micro m, 150 x 4.6 mm I.D.) for separation. The peak was detected using a fluorescence detector set at Ex 315 nm and Em 405 nm, and the total time for a chromatographic separation was approximately 30 min. The method was validated for the concentration range from 0.1 to 100 ng/ml. Mean recoveries were 97% for perospirone and 96% for ID-15036. Intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations were less than 2.8 and 5.3% for perospirone and 2.4 and 4.4% for ID-15036, respectively, at the concentration range from 0.3 to 30 ng/ml. This method shows good specificity with respect to commonly prescribed psychotropic drugs, and it could be successfully applied for pharmacokinetic studies and therapeutic drug monitoring.
18971317	Drug interaction potential of 2-((3,4-dichlorophenethyl)(propyl)amino)-1-(pyridin-3-yl)ethanol (LK-935), the novel nonstatin-type cholesterol-lowering agent.	The widely prescribed lipid-lowering statins are considered to be relatively safe drugs. However, the risk of severe myopathy and drug interactions as a consequence of statin therapy provides a challenge for development of novel cholesterol-lowering agents, targeting enzymes other than HMG-CoA reductase. The novel pyridylethanol-(phenylethyl)amine derivative, (2-((3,4-dichlorophenethyl)(propyl)-amino)-1-(pyridin-3-yl)ethanol (LK-935), blocking lanosterol 14alpha-demethylase, was demonstrated to efficiently reduce cholesterol biosynthesis. The drug interaction potential of LK-935 was investigated and compared with that of atorvastatin and rosuvastatin in primary human hepatocytes. Clear evidence was provided for the induction of CYP3A4 by LK-935. LK-935 was proved to be a potent human pregnane X receptor (hPXR) activator as a prerequisite for the transcriptional activation of CYP3A4 gene; however, the rapid metabolism of LK-935 in primary hepatocytes prevented maximal CYP3A4 induction. Therefore, the induction of CYP3A4 by LK-935 may be prone to mild or negligible drug interactions. However, because CYP3A4 and also CYP2C9 play a significant role in LK-935 metabolism, the inhibition of these cytochromes P450 by coadministered drugs may lead to some increase in the LK-935 concentration required for the potent induction of CYP3A4. Rosuvastatin was found to increase human constitutive androstane receptor (hCAR)-mediated transcription of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2B6 genes, predicting the consequent potential for drug interactions with several coadministered drugs. Activation of hCAR and hPXR by atorvastatin and the subsequent induction of not only CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 but also of CYP2C9 present an additional target by which atorvastatin, a widely used cholesterol-lowering drug, can modify the kinetics of numerous drugs.
22429874	Assessment of human deoxynivalenol exposure using an LC-MS/MS based biomarker method.	The Fusarium toxin deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of the most abundant mycotoxins worldwide and poses many adverse health effects to human and animals. Consequently, regulatory limits and a provisional maximum tolerable daily intake (PMTDI) for this important type B-trichothecene were assigned. We conducted a pilot survey to investigate the level of DON exposure in Austrian adults by measurements of DON and its glucuronide conjugates (DON-GlcA's), as biomarkers of exposure, in first morning urine. The average concentration of total DON (free DON+DON-GlcA's) was estimated to be 20.42.4 g L (max. 63 g L). Surprisingly, we found that one third of the volunteers (n=27) exceeded the established PMTDI when consuming regular diet. DON-GlcA's were directly quantified by LC-MS/MS and the results were compared with indirect quantification after enzymatic hydrolysis and confirmed the suitability of the direct method. Moreover, we investigated the in vivo metabolism of DON in humans and were able to determine two closely eluting DON-GlcA's in naturally contaminated urine samples for the first time. In contrast to previous findings we have tentatively identified DON-15-glucuronide as a major DON metabolite in human urine based on the analysis of these samples. About 75% of total glucuronides were derived from this metabolite while DON-3-glucuronide accounted for approximately 25%. The reported new findings clearly demonstrate the great potential of suitable biomarkers to critically assess exposure of humans and animals to DON.
24053885	Determination of ethyl glucuronide levels in hair for the assessment of alcohol abstinence.	This study examined the potential of a highly sensitive LC-MS/MS method for the determination of EtG in head hair (i) to ascertain alcohol abstinence, (ii) to estimate the basal level of EtG (sub-ppb concentrations) in head hair in a population of alcohol abstainers and (iii) to suggest a revision of cut-off values for assessing alcohol abstinence. An UHPLC-MS/MS protocol previously developed was modified and validated again to detect low EtG levels in head hair samples from a population of 44 certain abstainers and teetotalers. Basal level of EtG in hair was determined by a standard addition quantification method. The validated UHPLC-MS/MS method allowed detecting and quantifying 0.5 and 1.0 pg/mg of EtG in hair, respectively. EtG concentrations lower than 1.0 pg/mg were determined for 95% of abstainers; 30% of them had non-detectable (<0.5 pg/mg) EtG values. Two samples evidenced EtG concentrations higher than 1.0 pg/mg that were subsequently explained by unintentional ethanol exposure. The method's feature of high analytical sensitivity makes it particularly suitable for alcohol abstinence ascertainment and, in the same time, allows to tentatively estimate basal EtG concentrations in hair around 0.80.4 pg/mg. This finding opens a discussion on the possible origin of basal EtG concentration and potential sources of bias in the evaluation of alcohol abstinence. Cut-off value in the range of 1.0-2.0 pg/mg can be reliably proposed to support alcohol abstinence.
15502008	Analysis of substrate specificities and tissue expression of rat UDP-glucuronosyltransferases UGT1A7 and UGT1A8.	The UGT1 complex codes for a subfamily of homologous "1A7-like" UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), including UGT1A7 and UGT1A8. Little information is available regarding either the substrate specificities or regulation of the UGT1A7-like forms from rats. We compared the activities and tissue expression of UGT1A7 and UGT1A8, which exhibit 77% identity in their amino terminal sequence. UGT1A7 shows broad specificity, catalyzing the glucuronidation of 31 of 40 randomly selected substrates (100 muM) at rates >0.1 nmol/mg/min. UGT1A7 substrates included both planar and nonplanar compounds, mono- and polycyclic aromatics, and compounds with bulky side chain ring substitutions. UGT1A8 exhibited a narrower substrate specificity that completely overlapped with UGT1A7. UGT1A8 was most active toward the 1-OH, 4-OH, 5-OH, 6-OH, 7-OH, 10-OH, 11-OH, and 12-OH derivatives of benzo[a]pyrene. Other effective UGT1A8 substrates (>0.1 nmol/mg/min) included 9-OH-benzo[a]pyrene, 1-naphthol, 4-methylumbelliferone, 7-hydroxycoumarin, chrysin, quercetin, 4-nitrophenol, and estriol. In general, substrates preferred by UGT1A8 were polyaromatic planar structures with nonbulky substituents and a superimposable 1-naphtho ring structure. Studies of the tissue expression of the UGT1A7 and 1A8 mRNAs using RNase protection analysis suggested that each is expressed in liver and kidney of control rats. A major difference is the higher expression of UGT1A7 mRNA in intestine. These studies suggest complementary functions of the UGT1A7 and UGT1A8 forms in xenobiotic metabolism. Further studies are necessary to determine whether their relative contributions change as a function of development, hormonal status, or exposure to inducing agents.
20149761	Identification and quantitative determination of a major circulating metabolite of gambogic acid in human.	Gambogic acid (GA), a promising anticancer candidate, is a polyprenylated xanthone abundant in the resin of Garcinia morella and Garcinia hanburyi. The major circulating metabolite of GA in human, 10-hydroxygambogic acid (10-OHGA), was identified by comparison of the retention time and mass spectra with those of reference standard using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The reference standard of 10-OHGA was isolated from bile samples of rats after intravenous injection of GA injection, and its structure was confirmed by NMR. Then, a selective and sensitive method was developed for the quantitative determination of this metabolite in human plasma. After liquid-liquid extraction by ethyl acetate, the analyte and the internal standard were separated on a Sepax HPC18 column (100 mm x 2.1 mm i.d., 3.0 microm) with a mobile phase of 10mM ammonium acetate water solution containing 0.1% formic acid-acetonitrile (20:80, v/v). The detection was performed on a single quadrupole mass spectrometer equipped with electrospray ionization (ESI) source. The calibration curve was linear over the range of 3-2000 ng/mL for 10-OHGA. The developed quantification method can now be used for the pharmacokinetic and pharmacological studies of 10-OHGA after intravenous infusion of GA injection in human.
17392729	Effects of daily ingestion of cranberry juice on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, tizanidine, and midazolam--probes of CYP2C9, CYP1A2, and CYP3A4.	Case reports suggest that cranberry juice can increase the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. We investigated the effects of cranberry juice on R-S-warfarin, tizanidine, and midazolam; probes of CYP2C9, CYP1A2, and CYP3A4. Ten healthy volunteers took 200 ml cranberry juice or water t.i.d. for 10 days. On day 5, they ingested 10 mg racemic R-S-warfarin, 1 mg tizanidine, and 0.5 mg midazolam, with juice or water, followed by monitoring of drug concentrations and thromboplastin time. Cranberry juice did not increase the peak plasma concentration or area under concentration-time curve (AUC) of the probe drugs or their metabolites, but slightly decreased (7%; P=0.051) the AUC of S-warfarin. Cranberry juice did not change the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. Daily ingestion of cranberry juice does not inhibit the activities of CYP2C9, CYP1A2, or CYP3A4. A pharmacokinetic mechanism for the cranberry juice-warfarin interaction seems unlikely.
15608137	Regioselective glucuronidation of denopamine: marked species differences and identification of human udp-glucuronosyltransferase isoform.	Denopamine is one of the oral beta(1)-adrenoceptor-selective partial agonists. Denopamine glucuronide is the most abundant metabolite in human, rat, and dog urine when administered orally. Species differences in denopamine glucuronidation were investigated with liver microsomes obtained from humans and experimental animals. In rat and rabbit, only the phenolic glucuronide was detected, whereas in dog and monkey, not only the phenolic glucuronide but also the alcoholic glucuronide was found. In contrast, in humans, the alcoholic glucuronide was detected exclusively. The kinetics of denopamine glucuronidation in human liver microsomes showed a typical Michaelis-Menten plot. The K(m) and V(max) values accounted for 2.87 +/- 0.17 mM and 7.29 +/- 0.23 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. With the assessment of denopamine glucuronide formation across a panel of recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT1A10, UGT2B4, UGT2B7, UGT2B15, and UGT2B17), only UGT2B7 exhibited high denopamine glucuronosyltransferase activity. The K(m) value of denopamine glucuronidation in recombinant UGT2B7 microsomes was close to those in human liver and jejunum microsomes. The formation of denopamine glucuronidation by human liver, jejunum, and recombinant UGT2B7 microsomes was effectively inhibited by diclofenac, a known substrate for UGT2B7. The denopamine glucuronidation activities in seven human liver microsomes were significantly correlated with diclofenac glucuronidation activities (r(2) = 0.685, p < 0.05). These results demonstrate that the denopamine glucuronidation in human liver and intestine is mainly catalyzed by UGT2B7 and that glucuronidation of the alcoholic hydroxyl group, but not the phenolic hydroxyl group, occurs regioselectively in humans.
12357298	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of irinotecan in combination with raltitrexed.	To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of raltitrexed when given with irinotecan and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of these two agents when given in combination. Patients with advanced solid tumors received irinotecan intravenously over 90 min on days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle, with raltitrexed given intravenously over 15 min after irinotecan either on day 1 (cohorts 1-7) or day 2 (cohorts 8-9). The 39 patients received irinotecan and raltitrexed in cohorts of three to six patients at the following dose levels (mg/m(2)): 100/1.0, 100/1.5, 100/2.0, 100/2.5, 100/3.0, 100/3.5, 125/3.0, 75/3.0, 100/3.0. Pharmacologic monitoring of irinotecan and raltitrexed was carried out during cycle 1. A total of 39 patients received irinotecan and raltitrexed in cohorts of three to six patients at nine dose levels. The MTD with dosing of irinotecan on days 1 and 8 and raltitrexed on day 1 was 100 mg/m(2) and 3.0 mg/m(2), respectively, every 21 days, with dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of fatigue, neutropenia and diarrhea. When raltitrexed was administered 24 h after irinotecan, these doses exceeded the MTD. No pharmacologic interactions were observed between these agents, and no correlations between pharmacokinetic parameters and toxicity were noted. Of 26 patients with colorectal cancer, 6 had objective partial responses (23%). Four of these patients had previously received a 5-FU-based regimen, two for metastatic disease. Irinotecan can be safely administered with raltitrexed on a day-1 and day-8 schedule at 100 mg/m(2) and 3.0 mg/m(2), respectively, every 21 days. When raltitrexed was given on day 2, these doses were not tolerated, necessitating a dose reduction of the irinotecan to 75 mg/m(2). This regimen possesses clinical activity in patients with colorectal cancer.
18520047	In vivo antitumor activity of novel water-soluble taxoids.	The antitumor activity of newly developed taxoids possessing a sugar moiety (glucose, galactose or mannose) to improve water solubility was evaluated. Galactose-bound taxoid (10-alpha-GAG-DT) proved superior to all other taxoids in both water solubility and antitumor activity. Therapeutic efficacy of 10-alpha-GAG-DT in terms of in vivo antitumor activity was found to be approximately equivalent to that of docetaxel, which is known to be superior to that of paclitaxel. The observation that the sugar moiety was gradually hydrolyzed in serum to release docetaxel indicates that 10-alpha-GAG-DT acts as a prodrug.
17353349	Metabolism of prazosin in rat, dog, and human liver microsomes and cryopreserved rat and human hepatocytes and characterization of metabolites by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	Prazosin (2-[4-(2-furanoyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-4-amino-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline) is an antihypertensive agent that was introduced to the market in 1976. It has since established an excellent safety record. However, in vitro metabolism of prazosin has not been investigated. This study describes the in vitro biotransformation of prazosin in liver microsomes from rats, dogs, and humans, as well as rat and human cryopreserved hepatocytes and characterization of metabolites using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. The major in vivo biotransformation pathways reported previously in rats and dogs include demethylation, amide hydrolysis, and O-glucuronidation. These metabolic pathways were also confirmed in our study. In addition, several new metabolites were characterized, including a stable carbinolamine, an iminium species, and an enamine-all formed via oxidation of the piperazine ring. Two ring-opened metabolites generated following oxidative cleavage of the furan ring were also identified. Using semicarbazide hydrochloride as a trapping agent, an intermediate arising from opening of the furan ring was captured as a pyridazine product. In the presence of glutathione, three glutathione conjugates were detected in microsomal incubations, although they were not detected in cryopreserved hepatocytes. These data support ring opening of the furan via a reactive gamma-keto-alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde intermediate. In the presence of UDP-glucuronic acid, prazosin underwent conjugation to form an N-glucuronide not reported previously. Our in vitro investigations have revealed additional metabolic transformations of prazosin and have shown the potential of prazosin to undergo bioactivation through metabolism of the furan ring to a reactive intermediate.
17904919	A field-adapted HPLC method for determination of amodiaquine and its metabolite in whole blood dried on filter paper.	A reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatographic method was developed and validated for the quantitative determination of amodiaquine (AQ) and its metabolite desethylamodiaquine (DAQ) in whole blood collected on filter paper. The structure analogue 4-(4-dimethylamino-1-methylbutylamino)-7-chloroquinoline was used as internal standard. Upon collection, blood was added to 10% phosphoric acid in a 1:1 ratio and then spotted onto filter paper. The samples were alkalinized (pH approximately 9.2) with potassium hydroxide at the time of assay and the compounds were extracted together with internal standard into di-isopropyl ether and then re-extracted into an aqueous phase with 0.1M phosphate buffer at pH 4. The chromatographic analysis was performed using an Agilent Technologies ChemStation LC System. The absorbance of the compounds was monitored at 333 nm. Mean extraction recoveries of AQ and DAQ were 49 and 48%, respectively. Intra-day and inter-day coefficients of variation were <10.5%. The limit of quantification was 50 nM for both compounds (sample size 100 microl). Both AQ and DAQ that were previously reported to be unstable have been stored on filter paper for at least 19 weeks. The method was applied on samples from healthy volunteers.
23303441	Evaluation of hepatic disposition of paroxetine using sandwich-cultured rat and human hepatocytes.	Paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is metabolized in the liver and excreted into bile and urine as metabolites, but species differences have been observed in hepatic disposition between rats and humans. A major metabolite in rats is M1-glucuronide, whereas M1-glucuronide and M1-sulfate are found in humans. The primary excretion route of paroxetine-derived radioactivity in rats and humans is bile and urine, respectively. The aim of this study was to examine the usefulness of sandwich-cultured hepatocytes (SCH) to evaluate in vivo species differences of the hepatic disposition of paroxetine between rats and humans. The metabolite profile of [(3)H]paroxetine in SCH was similar to that in hepatocytes in suspension, and the in vitro metabolite profiles were similar to the published in vivo metabolic pathways for both species. Furthermore, the biliary excretion index (BEI) of formed M1-glucuronide in rat SCH (25.8-50.9%) was higher than that in human SCH (15.1-16.7%). The BEI of formed M1-sulfate (16.4-29.1%) was comparable to that of M1-glucuronide in human SCH, whereas the BEIs of paroxetine were negligible in SCH of both species. Moreover, M1-glucuronide was demonstrated to be a multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 substrate in both species, as determined by its uptake into ATP-binding cassette transporter-expressing membrane vesicles. SCH should prove to be useful to evaluate the processes of hepatic uptake and metabolism of parent drugs and the simultaneous examination of the biliary excretion of both parent drug and liver-derived metabolites.
8685072	Fluvoxamine and fluoxetine: interaction studies with amitriptyline, clomipramine and neuroleptics in phenotyped patients.	The in vivo pharmacokinetic interaction between two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) (fluvoxamine, fluoxetine) and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) (amitriptyline, clomipramine) or neuroleptics (haloperidol, cyamemazine, levomepromazine, propericiazine) was assessed in 29 in-patients. They were phenotyped twice with dextromethorphan and mephenytoin: first in steady state conditions while under treatment with TCAs or neuroleptics; and also 10 days after an associated treatment with fluvoxamine (150 mg day(-1)) or fluoxetine (20 mg day(-1)). A clear and statistically significant increase in the mean urinary metabolic ratio (MR) of dextromethorphan/dextrorphan and in the mean mephenytoin S/R ratio (S/R) was seen with the fluvoxamine and fluoxetine treatment. The mean MR increased from 0.13 to 0.27 (P<0.01) with fluoxetine and from 0.34 to 0.84 with fluvoxamine (P<0.05). The (dextromethorphan) 'extensive metabolizer' phenotype switched to the 'poor metabolizer' phenotype in six patients by the 10-day fluoxetine treatment, and in two patients by the fluvoxamine treatment. The mean S/R increased from 0.24 to 0.34 (P<0.05) with fluoxetine, and from 0.33 to 0.58 (P<0.002) with fluvoxamine. These results are in agreement with the observed modification of TCA plasma levels after the SSRI association. During fluvoxamine treatment, amitriptyline and clomipramine plasma levels (P<0.06 both) tendentially increased, and those of demethylclomiprarnine decreased (P<0.06). Fluoxetine addition lead to a significant increase (P<0.02) of the desmethylclomipramine plasma levels. Fluvoxamine induced a moderate augmentation of the plasma levels of haloperidol and its reduced metabolite and no change in the plasma levels of cyamemazine and levomepromazine. But patients treated with neuroleptics are to few to draw any firm conclusion. This study suggests, that fluoxetine and fluvoxamine differ in their interaction with the metabolism of some other basic psychotropic drugs, by a mechanism which implies CYP2D6 and CYPmeph and possibly other isoformes of cytochrome P-450. Moreover, the interactions produced varied with the TCA prescribed.
11335786	A new prodrug of paclitaxel: synthesis of Protaxel.	2' and 7 Polyol carbonates of paclitaxel were synthesized and screened as potential paclitaxel prodrugs. Paclitaxel is released from 7-(2",3"-dihydroxypropylcarbonato) paclitaxel (Protaxel) at rates inversely proportional to pH, by an intramolecular cyclization. Compared to paclitaxel, maximum tolerated i.v. or i.p. doses (MTD) of Protaxel are about 2.5- to 3-fold higher; its efficacy is substantially higher in human cancer line xenografts in athymic mice, especially in prostate PC-3, breast MDA-MB 468 and ovary OVCAR-1.
11927840	Variation in coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity associated with genetic polymorphism of cytochrome P450 2A6 and the body status of iron stores in adult Thai males and females.	The relationships between catalytic activity of cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6), polymorphism of CYP2A6 gene, gender and levels of body iron stores were analysed in a sample group of 202 apparently healthy Thais, aged 19-47 years. Eleven individuals were found to have high activity of CYP2A6, judged by the relatively large amounts (11.2-14.6 mg) of 7-hydroyxcoumarin (7-OHC) excreted 3 h following administration of 15 mg of coumarin. Ten individuals, however, did not excrete any 7-OHC. Of these 10, four were found to have no CYP2A6 gene (whole gene deletion; CYP2A6*4 allele). The frequency of the CYP2A6 alleles; *1A, *1B and *4 in the whole sample group was 52, 40 and 8% while the frequency of the CYP2A6 gene types; *1A/*1A, *1A/*1B, *1B/*1B, *1A/*4, *1B/*4, *4/*4 was 29, 41, 16, 7, 5 and 2%. Subjects having CYP2A6*1A/*1B gene-type group were found to have higher rates of coumarin 7-hydroxylation compared with those of the CYP2A6*1B/*1B and CYP2A6*1A/*4 gene types. The inter-individual variability in CYP2A6 catalytic activity was therefore attributed in part to the CYP2A6 genetic polymorphism. Variation in CYP2A6 activity in this sample group was not associated with gender but, interestingly, it did show an inverse association with plasma ferritin; an indicator of body iron stores. Higher rates of coumarin 7-hydroxylation were found in individuals with low body iron stores (plasma ferritin < 20 microg/l) compared with subjects having normal body iron store status. Subjects (n = 16) with iron overload (plasma ferritin > 300 microg/l) also tended to have elevated rates of coumarin 7-hydroxylation. These results suggest an increased CYP2A6 expression in subjects who have excessive body iron stores. Further investigations into the underlying factors that may lead to increased expression of CYP2A6 in association with abnormal body iron stores are currently in progress in our laboratory.
16969771	A high-throughput, fully automated liquid/liquid extraction liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry method for the quantitation of a new investigational drug ABT-869 and its metabolite A-849529 in human plasma samples.	ABT-869 is a novel ATP-competitive inhibitor for all the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). It is one of the oncology drugs in development at Abbott Laboratories and has great potential for enhanced anti-tumor efficacy as well as activity in a broad range of human cancers. We report here an accurate, precise and rugged liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay for the quantitative measurement of ABT-869 and its acid metabolite A-849529. A fully automated 96-well liquid/liquid extraction method was achieved utilizing a Hamilton liquid handler. The only manual intervention required prior to LC/MS/MS injection is to transfer the 96-well plate to a drying rack to dry the extracts then transfer the plate back to the Hamilton for robotic reconstitution. The linear dynamic ranges were from 1.1 to 598.8 ng/mL for ABT-869 and from 1.1 to 605.8 ng/mL for A-849529. The coefficient of determination (r2) for all analytes was greater than 0.9995. For the drug ABT-869, the intra-assay coefficient of variance (CV) was between 0.4% and 3.7% and the inter-assay CV was between 0.9% and 2.8%. The inter-assay mean accuracy, expressed as percent of theoretical, was between 96.8% and 102.2%. For the metabolite A-849529, the intra-assay CV was between 0.5% and 5.1% and the inter-assay CV was between 0.8% and 4.9%. The inter-assay mean accuracy, expressed as percent of theoretical, was between 96.9% and 100.6%.
16565170	N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase and 8-oxoguanine dna glycosylase metabolize the antiviral nucleoside 2-bromo-5,6-dichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)benzimidazole.	The rapid in vivo degradation of the potent human cytomegalovirus inhibitor 2-bromo-5,6-dichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)benzimidazole (BDCRB) compared with a structural L-analog, maribavir (5,6-dichloro-2-(isopropylamino)-1-beta-L-ribofuranosyl-1H-benzimidazole), has been attributed to selective glycosidic bond cleavage. An enzyme responsible for this selective BDCRB degradation, however, has not been identified. Here, we report the identification of two enzymes, 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) and N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase (MPG), that catalyze N-glycosidic bond cleavage of BDCRB and its 2-chloro homolog, 2,5,6-trichloro-1-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)benzimidazole, but not maribavir. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that free nucleosides are substrates of OGG1 and MPG. To understand how these enzymes might process BDCRB, docking and molecular dynamics simulations were performed with the native human OGG1 crystal coordinates. These studies showed that OGG1 was not able to bind a negative control, guanosine, yet BDCRB and maribavir were stabilized through interactions with various binding site residues, including Phe319, His270, Ser320, and Asn149. Only BDCRB, however, achieved orientations whereby its anomeric carbon, C1', could undergo nucleophilic attack by the putative catalytic residue, Lys249. Thus, in silico observations were in perfect agreement with experimental observations. These findings implicate DNA glycosylases in drug metabolism.
15935821	High-pressure liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric determination of sorbic acid in urine: verification of formation of trans,trans-muconic acid.	An LC-MS method is described for the determination of urinary sorbic acid (SA), a common food additive, which allows to measure down to 4 microg/L of the compound. The method involves an acidic hydrolysis followed by solid-phase extraction. The method was applied to two volunteers who ingested SA and to 36 individuals with no dietary restriction. The results confirm that a little aliquot of ingested SA is found in urine also in humans. The significant correlation found between urinary levels of SA and trans,trans-muconic acid (MA) seems to indicate that the measurement of SA in urine could allow to estimate the amount of MA excreted following a dietary intake of SA and, consequently, to enhance the specificity of MA as a biomarker of benzene exposure. A point of clarification in future studies will be the actual chemical form of SA excreted, since our results clearly demonstrate that without hydrolysis only a very little amount of SA can be found even in subjects heavily exposed to SA.
19074524	Investigation of the in vitro metabolism of the analgesic flupirtine.	The in vitro metabolism of flupirtine, ethyl-N-[2-amino-6-(4-fluorophenylmethyl-amino)pyridine-3-yl]carbamate, a centrally acting analgesic with muscle tone-reducing activity, was studied. Two flupirtine metabolites were already known: the N-acetylated analog D13223 and 4-fluorohippuric acid. The structure of flupirtine suggested that redox chemistry may play a role in metabolism, and cyclic voltammetry studies showed that the drug undergoes facile and irreversible redox reactions. Thus, oxidative metabolism was investigated first. With CYP3A1-induced rat liver microsomes an 18% turnover of flupirtine and a 20 to 25% turnover of D13223 took place over 30 min, but less than 5% turnover of flupirtine was observed with all human liver microsomal preparations tested, evidence that cytochrome P450 does not contribute appreciably to the metabolism in humans. Likewise, no involvement of human monoamine oxidase (isoforms A and B) was found for either flupirtine or D13223. In contrast, flupirtine was an excellent substrate for both human myeloperoxidase and horse radish peroxidase (HRP). These enzymes produced detectable amounts of oxidation products. Incubations of flupirtine with HRP produced an oxidation product that could be trapped with glutathione, the resulting glutathione conjugate was characterized by mass spectrometry and NMR. Metabolism of D13223 by both peroxidases was also observed but to a much lesser extent. Porcine liver esterases cleave the carbamate group of flupirtine, and both human N-acetyltransferases 1 and 2 acetylated the hydrolysis product, presumably descarboethoxyflupirtine, with nearly equal efficiencies to yield D13223. Incubations of human liver microsomes with flupirtine or the metabolite D13223 together with UDP-glucuronic acid gave two isomeric N-glucuronides in both cases.
12367706	HPLC assay for albendazole and metabolites in human plasma for clinical pharmacokinetic studies.	A sensitive and selective HPLC chromatography method using UV detection (295 nm) was developed for the determination of albendazole, albendazole sulfoxide (ABZSO), and albendazole sulfone (ABZSO2) in human plasma. Albendazole, ABZSO, ABZSO2, and the internal standard, oxibendazole, were extracted from human plasma by loading onto a conditioned C(18) SPE cartridge, rinsing with 15% methanol, and eluting with 90% methanol. Samples were evaporated under a stream of nitrogen, reconstituted with mobile phase, 1.25% triethylamine in water-methanol-acetonitrile (72:15:13, v/v/v) (pH* 3.1), and injected onto a Waters muBondapak Phenyl 3.9 x 300 mm HPLC column. Mobile phase flow rate was 1.0 ml/min. The retention times of albendazole, ABZSO, ABZSO2, and the internal standard were approximately 24.4, 7.9, 13.4, and 11.3 min, respectively. Total run time was 30 min. The assay was linear for concentration ranges in human plasma of 20-600 ng/ml for albendazole, 20-1000 ng/ml for ABZSO, and 20-300 ng/ml for ABZSO2. The analysis of quality control samples demonstrated excellent precision. Coefficients of variation for albendazole (20, 400, 600 ng/ml) were 6.7, 8.1 and 7.0%; ABZSO (20, 400, 800 ng/ml) were 6.0, 8.5 and 5.9%; ABZSO2 (20, 150, 300 ng/ml) were 3.1, 3.9 and 2.3%, respectively. The method appears to be robust and has been applied to a pharmacokinetic study of albendazole in healthy volunteers.
8061835	Determination of the coumarin anticoagulant phenprocoumon and metabolites in human plasma, urine and breast milk by high-performance liquid chromatography after solid-phase extraction.	The coumarin anticoagulant phenprocoumon (PH) and metabolites (6-, 7- and 4'-hydroxyphenprocoumon) were analysed in plasma and urine samples from anticoagulated patients using solid-phase extraction and high-performance liquid chromatography with reversed-phase columns and ultraviolet and fluorescence detection; a simpler handling of samples, higher selectivity, precision, accuracy and analytical recovery were obtained compared to analysis using liquid-liquid extraction. Similarly, a method for the analysis of PH in human breast milk was developed to assess the passage of anticoagulants into breast milk in anticoagulated lactating women.
15897723	Detection of recent ethanol intake with new markers: comparison of fatty acid ethyl esters in serum and of ethyl glucuronide and the ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid in urine.	At present, recent ethanol consumption can be routinely detected with certainty only by direct measurement of ethanol concentration in blood or urine. Because ethanol is rapidly eliminated from the circulation, however, the time span for this detection is in the range of hours. Several new markers have been proposed to extend the detection interval, but their characteristics have not yet justified their use in routine clinical practice. We therefore investigated three new markers and compared their kinetics and sensitivities: (1) fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs) in serum, (2) ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in urine, and (3) the ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HTOL/5-HIAA) in urine. Seventeen healthy men participated in a drinking experiment. Blood and urine samples were collected twice daily on three consecutive days and once daily on days 4 and 5. Ethanol concentration was determined by gas chromatography, FAEE levels, by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry, EtG concentration, by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and 5-HTOL/5-HIAA ratio, by high-performance liquid chromatography. The peak serum ethanol concentrations of the subjects ranged from 5.4 to 44.7 mmol/liter (mean +/- SD, 30.1 +/- 9.1 mmol/liter). In the case of the serum ethanol determination, 100% sensitivity was reached only immediately after the end of the drinking experiment, and in the case of FAEE levels and 5-HTOL/5-HIAA ratio, it tested for 6.7 hr after the end of the ethanol intake. Thereafter, these latter parameters declined until 15.3 hr (FAEEs) and 29.4 hr (5-HTOL/5-HIAA), subsequently remaining in a stable range until 78.5 hr without further decrease. In contrast, EtG concentration showed 100% sensitivity until 39.3 hr and thereafter decreased, falling to below the limit of quantification of 0.1 mg/liter at 102.5 hr. After moderate drinking, EtG in the urine proved to be a superior marker of recent ethanol consumption in healthy subjects. This is because EtG is a direct ethanol metabolite, it occurs in the urine only when ethanol has been consumed, and its sensitivity remains at the level of 100% for 39.3 hr.
16139098	Assessment of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase catalyzed formation of ethyl glucuronide in human liver microsomes and recombinant UGTs.	While ethanol is primarily metabolized to acetaldehyde and acetic acid via alcohol dehydrogenase, a minor but increasingly important pathway in the field of forensic science involves the conjugation of glucuronic acid to form an ethyl glucuronide (EtG) metabolite. The kinetics of ethyl glucuronide formation were examined in human liver microsomes (HLM) and recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). The metabolite exhibited a relatively slow rate of formation in a human liver microsome mix of 75.4 pmol/(min/mg). Further investigation identified multiple UGT isoforms to be responsible for catalyzing the addition of glucuronic acid to ethanol, with UGT1A1 and 2B7 being the two most prevalent isoforms. Co-incubation with bilirubin or 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (UGT1A1 and 2B7 inhibitors, respectively) inhibited the greatest amount of ethyl glucuronide formation, though other UGT inhibitors also showed some effect. Enzyme kinetics were performed in human liver microsomes and recombinant UGT enzymes. The apparent Km (Km app) and Vmax values were determined to be 0.17+/-0.08 mM and 75.98+/-5.63 pmol/(min/mg) (human liver microsomes), 0.03+/-0.01 mM and 25.22+/-3.45 pmol/(min/mg) (UGT1A1), and 0.11+/-0.04 mM and 52.03+/-9.8 pmol/(min/mg) (UGT2B7). Thus, it appears that multiple UGTs are responsible for the formation of ethyl glucuronide and that any functional differences in the enzymology underlying ethyl glucuronide formation would most likely be masked by a combination of other enzymatic pathways.
11327354	Semiautomated high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of benzodiazepines in whole blood.	A semiautomated method for the determination of five frequently prescribed benzodiazepines (BZD) (clonazepam, diazepam, flunitrazepam, midazolam, and oxazepam) in whole blood samples by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography following simple online enrichment and clean-up on a short precolumn is described. After precipitation of protein and red cells with a mixture of organic solvents (methanol/acetonitrile, 50:50), the aliquot is centrifuged and the organic upper phase evaporated under a gentle stream of nitrogen. The residue is reconstituted by adding 500 microL of a mixture of phosphate buffer (20mM, pH 2.2) and acetonitrile (70:30, v/v). The sample is then directly introduced into the column-switching column. The precolumn is first washed with phosphate buffer at pH 7.2. Compounds retained on the precolumn are then eluted in the back-flush mode and separated on a C8 semi-microcolumn (Lichrospher select B, 125 x 3 mm). The BZD studied are determined by a diode-array detector at 254 nm. The method shows excellent linearity between 25 and 1,000 ng/mL for clonazepam, flunitrazepam, and midazolam and between 25 and 5,000 ng/mL for diazepam and oxazepam. The recoveries are around 80% for clonazepam and oxazepam and around 90% for the three others. Coefficients of variation for between-day and within-day assays are < 15% for low concentrations close to the limit of quantitation and < 5% for high concentrations.
16497705	Hemoglobin adducts in workers exposed to benzidine and azo dyes.	Benzidine (Bz) is a known human carcinogen. Several azo dyes have been synthesized with Bz. Bz can be metabolically released from azo dyes. In a group of Indian workers producing Bz and azo dyes the presence of hemoglobin (Hb) adducts was investigated. The following Hb adducts were identified and quantified by GC-MS: Bz, N-acetylbenzidine (AcBz), 4-aminobiphenyl (4ABP), aniline. 4ABP and aniline were quantitatively the major adducts. In the exposed workers (n = 33) all correlations between 4ABP, Bz and AcBz were r = 0.89 (P < 0.01) or greater. The group of workers exposed to Bz (Bz workers, n = 15) had 10-17-fold higher adduct levels than the workers exposed to dyes (dye workers, n = 18). 4ABP can be metabolically released from Bz and azo dyes. Aniline can be metabolically released from azo dyes. Therefore, the presence of 4ABP and aniline as Hb adducts is a consequence of exposure to the parent compounds or to the exposure of Bz and azo dyes and a consequent metabolical release of the arylamine moiety. The mean adduct ratios of 4ABP/(AcBz + Bz) varied up to 4-fold across all seven factories. Therefore, it is possible that 4ABP may have derived from general contamination in the work environment or endogenous metabolism, or a combination of the two. Since 4ABP is also a known human carcinogen, tumors observed in workers exposed to Bz or Bz dyes might be caused by both compounds. Further, these results suggest that understanding the role that genetic variants in NAT1 and NAT2 play in modifying the impact of Bz on bladder cancer risk may be complicated, as N-acetylation detoxifies 4ABP and activates Bz.
15257612	Oxidation of raloxifene to quinoids: potential toxic pathways via a diquinone methide and o-quinones.	Raloxifene was approved in 1997 by the FDA for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, and it is currently in clinical trials for the chemoprevention of breast cancer. Before widespread use as a chemopreventive agent in healthy women, the potential cytotoxic mechanisms of raloxifene should be investigated. In the current study, raloxifene was incubated with GSH and either rat or human liver microsomes, and the metabolites and GSH conjugates were characterized using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Raloxifene was converted to raloxifene diquinone methide GSH conjugates, raloxifene o-quinone GSH conjugates, and raloxifene catechols. For comparison, three raloxifene catechols were synthesized and characterized. In particular, 7-hydroxyraloxifene was found to oxidize to the 6,7-o-quinone. As compared with raloxifene diquinone methide, which has a half-life of less than 1 s in phosphate buffer, the half-life of raloxifene 6,7-o-quinone was much longer at t(1/2) = 69 +/- 2.5 min. The stability offered by raloxifene 6,7-o-quinone implies that it may be more toxic than raloxifene diquinone methide. Cytotoxicity studies in the human breast cancer cell lines S30 and MDA-MB-231 showed that 7-hydroxyraloxifene was more toxic than raloxifene in both cell lines. These results suggest that raloxifene could be metabolized to electrophilic and redox active quinoids, which have the potential to cause toxicity in vivo.
8710739	Evidence for intestinal secretion as an additional clearance pathway of talinolol enantiomers: concentration- and dose-dependent absorption in vitro and in vivo.	To evaluate carrier-mediated intestinal secretion of talinolol enantiomers in vivo and in vitro. In clinical studies with i.v. and p.o. dosage of rac-talinolol (30 mg and 100 mg, resp.) performed in a small number of cholecystectomized patients total and partial clearances were determined on the basis of plasma, bile and urine concentrations. The dose-dependence of AUC was investigated in 12 healthy volunteers (25, 50, 100, and 400 mg rac-talinolol as single p.o. doses). Concentration-dependence of the permeability across Caco-2 cell monolayers included concentrations from 0.1 to 2.0 mM, inhibition by verapamil was tested at 0.5 mM. The total clearance as well as the apparent oral clearance (CL/F) were slightly higher for S-(-)- than for R-(+)-talinolol. Calculation of the partial clearances showed that also the residual clearance was higher for the S- than for the R-enantiomer. In the healthy volunteers, CL/F increased with increasing doses, while the S/R ratio decreased approaching unity for the highest dose. Also the results from Caco-2 cell permeation studies yielded a clear concentration-dependence with decreasing stereoselectivity for the higher concentration range. Permeability of both enantiomers was considerably higher for b-->a than a-->b transport, however, this difference disappeared when verapamil was added. Although not very expressed, the detected stereoselectivities indicate a preferential absorption of R-(+)-talinolol in a lower concentration and dose range, which is most probably due to a moderate stereoselectivity at the carrier system involved in intestinal secretion.
9288889	Immunochemical, 32P-postlabeling, and GC/MS detection of 4-aminobiphenyl-DNA adducts in human peripheral lung in relation to metabolic activation pathways involving pulmonary N-oxidation, conjugation, and peroxidation.	4-Aminobiphenyl (ABP) is a recognized human bladder carcinogen, whose presence in cigarette smoke results in DNA adduct formation in the human urothelium. Since preliminary studies indicated that even higher levels of ABP-DNA adducts may be present in human peripheral lung, we utilized a sensitive immunochemical assay, in combination with 32P-postlabeling, to quantify the major 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP)-DNA adduct, N-(guan-8-yl)-ABP, in surgical samples of peripheral lung tissue from smokers and ex-smokers. No differences in adduct levels were detected between smokers and ex-smokers by immunoassay. In contrast, the 32P-postlabeling method showed statistically significant differences between adduct levels in smokers and ex-smokers; however, a relatively high background of smoking-related adducts chromatograph near the major ABP adducts and may compromise estimation of the level of ABP-DNA adducts in smokers. Furthermore, the levels measured by 32P-postlabeling were 20- to 60-fold lower than that measured by immunoassay. Since 32P-postlabeling may underestimate and immunochemical assays may overestimate adduct levels in the lung, selected samples were also evaluated by GC/MS. The immunochemical and GC/MS data were concordant, leading us to conclude that N-(guan-8-yl)-ABP adducts were not related to smoking status. Since ABP-DNA adduct levels in human lung did not correlate with smoking status as measured by immunoassay and GC/MS, the metabolic activation capacity of human lung microsomes and cytosols was examined to determine if another exposure (e.g., 4-nitrobiphenyl) might be responsible for the adduct. The rates of microsomal ABP N-oxidation were below the limit of detection, which was consistent with a lack of detectable cytochrome P4501A2 in human lung. N-Hydroxy-ABP O-acetyltransferase (but not sulfotransferase) activity was detected in cytosols and comparative measurements of N-acetyltransferase (NAT) using p-aminobenzoic acid and sulfamethazine indicated that NAT1 and NAT2 contributed to this activity. 4-Nitrobiphenyl reductase activity was found in lung microsomes and cytosols, with the reaction yielding ABP and N-hydroxy-ABP. Lung microsomes also demonstrated high peroxidative activation of ABP, benzidine, 4,4'-methylene-bis(2-chloroaniline), 2-aminofluorene, and 2-naphthylamine. The preferred co-oxidant was hydrogen peroxide and the reaction was strongly inhibited by sodium azide but not by indomethacin or eicosatetraynoic acid, which suggested the primary involvement of myeloperoxidase rather than prostaglandin H synthase or lipoxygenase. This was confirmed by immunoinhibition and immunoprecipitation studies using solubilized human lung microsomes and antisera specific for myeloperoxidase. These data suggest that ABP-DNA adducts in human lung result from some environmental exposure to 4-nitrobiphenyl. The bioactivation pathways appear to involve: (1) metabolic reduction to N-hydroxy-ABP and subsequent O-acetylation by NAT1 and/or NAT2; and (2) metabolic reduction to ABP and subsequent peroxidation by myeloperoxidase. The myeloperoxidase activity appears to be the highest peroxidase activity measured in mammalian tissue and is consistent with the presence of neutrophils and polymorphonuclear leukocytes surrounding particulate matter derived from cigarette smoking.
23180090	Identification of in vitro metabolites of the novel anti-tumor thiosemicarbazone, DpC, using ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry.	Di-2-pyridylketone-4-cyclohexyl-4-methyl-3-thiosemicarbazone (DpC) is a promising analogue of the dipyridyl thiosemicarbazone class currently under development as a potential anti-cancer drug. In fact, this class of agents shows markedly greater anti-tumor activity and selectivity than the clinically investigated thiosemicarbazone, Triapine. However, further development of DpC requires detailed data concerning its metabolism. Therefore, we focused on the identification of principal phase I and II metabolites of DpC in vitro. DpC was incubated with human liver microsomes/S9 fractions and the samples were analyzed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC(TM)) with electrospray ionization quadrupole-time-of-flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry. An Acquity UPLC BEH C(18) column was implemented with 2 mM ammonium acetate and acetonitrile in gradient mode as the mobile phase. The chemical structures of metabolites were proposed based on the accurate mass measurement of the protonated molecules as well as their main product ions. Ten phase I and two phase II metabolites were detected and structurally described. The metabolism of DpC occurred via oxidation of the thiocarbonyl group, hydroxylation and N-demethylation, as well as the combination of these reactions. Conjugates of DpC and the metabolite, M10, with glucuronic acid were also observed as phase II metabolites. Neither sulfate nor glutathione conjugates were detected. This study provides the first information about the chemical structure of the principal metabolites of DpC, which supports the development of this promising anti-cancer drug and provides vital data for further pharmacokinetic and in vivo metabolism studies.
17056211	Environmental and biological monitoring of benzene exposure in a cohort of Italian taxi drivers.	An integrated approach based on ambient and biological monitoring, the latter including both biomarkers of exposure and susceptibility, was applied to characterize benzene exposure in a group of 37 taxi drivers of the city of Parma (Italy). Airborne benzene concentrations were assessed by 24 h personal sampling and work-shift sampling inside the taxicab using passive samplers (Radiello). Benzene metabolites, trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA), and urinary cotinine as biomarker of smoking habits were measured by isotopic dilution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry in both pre-shift (PS) and end-of-shift (EOS) samples. Urinary benzene (U-B) levels were determined by solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in EOS samples. Relevant polymorphisms of microsomal epoxide hydrolase, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase, glutathione S-transferases M1-1 (GSTM1), T1-1, and A1 were characterized by PCR-based methods. Mean airborne benzene concentration was 5.85 +/- 1.65 microg/m3, as assessed by 24 h personal sampling integrating for work-shift, indoor or general environment activities. Significantly, higher benzene concentrations were detected in the taxicab during the work-shift (7.71 +/- 1.95 microg/m3, p < 0.005). Smokers eliminated significantly higher concentrations of U-B and S-PMA than non-smokers in EOS samples [geometric mean (geometric S.D.): 2.58 (4.23) versus 0.44 (1.79) microg/l for U-B; 3.79 (1.50) versus 2.14 (1.87) microg/gcreat. for S-PMA, p < 0.002]. Within smokers, S-PMA concentrations significantly increased at the end of the work-shift compared to pre-shift values (p < 0.05). t,t-MA showed a similar behaviour, although differences were not significant. In the narrow range examined, no correlation was observed between air benzene concentration and urinary biomarkers. All benzene biomarkers but EOS t,t-MA were correlated with U-cotinine (p < 0.05). GSTM1 polymorphism significantly modulated S-PMA excretion, as subjects bearing the GSTM1pos genotype [3.61 (1.15) microg/gcreat.] excreted significantly higher S-PMA concentrations than GSTM1null subjects [2.19 (1.18) microg/gcreat., p < 0.05].
19109074	Development and validation of a gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry method for the determination of ethyl glucuronide in hair and its application to forensic toxicology.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a minor and direct metabolite of ethanol. EtG is incorporated into the growing hair allowing retrospective investigation of chronic alcohol abuse. In this study, we report the development and the validation of a method using gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry (GC-NCI-MS/MS) for the quantification of EtG in hair. EtG was extracted from about 30 mg of hair by aqueous incubation and purified by solid-phase extraction (SPE) using mixed mode extraction cartridges followed by derivation with perfluoropentanoic anhydride (PFPA). The analysis was performed in the selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mode using the transitions m/z 347-->163 (for the quantification) and m/z 347-->119 (for the identification) for EtG, and m/z 352-->163 for EtG-d(5) used as internal standard. For validation, we prepared quality controls (QC) using hair samples taken post mortem from 2 subjects with a known history of alcoholism. These samples were confirmed by a proficiency test with 7 participating laboratories. The assay linearity of EtG was confirmed over the range from 8.4 to 259.4 pg/mg hair, with a coefficient of determination (r(2)) above 0.999. The limit of detection (LOD) was estimated with 3.0 pg/mg. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) of the method was fixed at 8.4 pg/mg. Repeatability and intermediate precision (relative standard deviation, RSD%), tested at 4 QC levels, were less than 13.2%. The analytical method was applied to several hair samples obtained from autopsy cases with a history of alcoholism and/or lesions caused by alcohol. EtG concentrations in hair ranged from 60 to 820 pg/mg hair.
16700819	Correlations between calcineurin phosphatase inhibition and cyclosporine metabolites concentrations in kidney transplant recipients: implications for immunoassays.	Cyclosporine exhibits a wide spectrum of metabolites that vary considerably in the extent to which they interfere with the various parent drug monitoring immunoassays. There is no consensus regarding the clinical significance of metabolites. Cyclosporine exerts its immunosuppressive action by inhibiting the enzyme calcineurin phosphatase. Determination of the enzyme's activity is one of the most promising pharmacodynamic markers. It is unknown how calcineurin phosphatase inhibition correlates with various cyclosporine monitoring assays and what is the potential impact of metabolites in this perspective? The aim of the present study was to determine the concentration of cyclosporine (by means of three different assay methods) and the four most significant metabolites (AM1, AM4N, AM9, and AM1C) in relation to calcineurin phosphatase inhibition. Twelve randomly selected cyclosporine-treated renal transplant patients were included in the study. Blood samples were drawn before, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hr after oral intake of cyclosporine. Parent drug and metabolites were determined by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MSMS). Additionally, cyclosporine concentration was determined by the enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (EMIT) and by the polyclonal fluorescence polarization immunoassay (pFPIA). Calcineurin phosphatase activity was measured by its ability to dephosphorylate a previously phosphorylated 19-amino acid peptide. We found that calcineurin phosphatase inhibition correlates strongly with parent cyclosporine metabolites concentrations determined by all three assay methods. Determination methods that took metabolites into consideration exhibit stronger correlations with calcineurin phosphatase inhibition (sum of cyclosporin plus metabolites r=-0.93, LC/MSMS; pFPIA r=-0.94, P<or=0.001), compared with methods that measure exclusively the parent drug (EMIT: -0.84; LC/MS-MS: -0.81, P<or=0.05). Our results indicate that the immunosuppressive role of cyclosporines metabolites should not be considered valueless per se. Further research is required in order to verify the potential clinical importance of our observations.
22752007	Comparison of metabolism of sesamin and episesamin by drug-metabolizing enzymes in human liver.	Sesamin and episesamin are two epimeric lignans that are found in refined sesame oil. Commercially available sesamin supplements contain both sesamin and episesamin at an approximate 1:1 ratio. Our previous study clarified the sequential metabolism of sesamin by cytochrome P450 (P450) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase in human liver. In addition, we revealed that sesamin caused a mechanism-based inhibition (MBI) of CYP2C9, the P450 enzyme responsible for sesamin monocatecholization. In the present study, we compared the metabolism and the MBI of episesamin with those of sesamin. Episesamin was first metabolized to the two epimers of monocatechol, S- and R-monocatechols in human liver microsomes. The P450 enzymes responsible for S- and R-monocatechol formation were CYP2C9 and CYP1A2, respectively. The contribution of CYP2C9 was much larger than that of CYP1A2 in sesamin metabolism, whereas the contribution of CYP2C9 was almost equal to that of CYP1A2 in episesamin metabolism. Docking of episesamin to the active site of CYP1A2 explained the stereoselectivity in CYP1A2-dependent episesamin monocatecholization. Similar to sesamin, the episesamin S- and R-monocatechols were further metabolized to dicatechol, glucuronide, and methylate metabolites in human liver; however, the contribution of each reaction was significantly different between sesamin and episesamin. The liver microsomes from CYP2C19 ultra-rapid metabolizers showed a significant amount of episesamin dicatechol. In this study, we have revealed significantly different metabolism by P450, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and catechol-O-methyltransferase for sesamin and episesamin, resulting in different biological effects.
2079512	Determination of ximoprofen and its metabolites in human urine by high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet absorbance detection.	A simple, sensitive and selective method for the determination of ximoprofen and its keto and hydroxy metabolites in human urine has been developed using high-performance liquid chromatography in the reversed-phase mode. The limit of reliable determination of ximoprofen and each of its metabolites in urine is about 1 microgram/ml (4 nmol/ml). The method has been applied to urine samples obtained from human volunteers after administration of single intravenous doses of 30 mg of ximoprofen and about 70% dose was accounted for in terms of these compounds and their glucuronic acid conjugates.
8207937	Determination of S-benzyl-N-acetyl-L-cysteine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry as a new marker of toluene exposure.	We investigated by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry if S-benzyl-N-acetyl-L-cysteine (SBAC) is excreted into the urine of six printing workers and 20 sniffers after exposure to toluene. SBAC was extracted from 10 mL urine with chloroform and back extracted into 1M sodium bicarbonate. After acidfying, the sample was reextracted with ethyl acetate. The SBAC in urine was also measured by selected ion monitoring methods, using deuterium-labeled SBAC as an internal standard. An excellent linearity was obtained from 0.01 to 3.0 mg/L (r = 0.998). Urinary concentrations of SBAC were determined quantitatively in all samples from sniffers and printing workers (n = 26, 0.02-43.29 mg/L) but were not determined in the urine of persons not exposed to toluene (n = 40). The results of this experiment indicate that SBAC is excreted as a minor metabolite of toluene in human urine. The analysis of urinary SBAC is a useful tool in identifying toluene exposure.
19922897	Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic interaction between nebicapone and controlled-release levodopa/benserazide: a single-center, Phase I, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover study in healthy subjects.	Nebicapone is a reversible catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor. Coadministration of a COMT inhibitor with levodopa and a dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor (carbidopa or benserazide) increases levodopa exposure and its therapeutic effect. The primary objective of this study was to investigate the effect of nebicapone (50, 100, and 200 mg), compared with placebo, on levodopa pharmacokinetics when coadministered with a single dose of controlled-release levodopa 100 mg/benserazide 25 mg. The secondary objectives were to investigate the effect of nebicapone on the erythrocyte-soluble COMT (S-COMT) activity and on the plasma levels of the levodopa 3-O-methylated metabolite (3-O-methyldopa [3-OMD]). Nebicapone's tolerability was also assessed. This was a single-center, Phase I, doubleblind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 4-way crossover study conducted in healthy adult volunteers. Each of the 4 single-dose treatment periods was separated by a washout period of > or = 5 days. During the different treatment periods, subjects received a single dose of controlled-release levodopa 100 mg/benserazide 25 mg concomitantly with nebicapone 50, 100, and 200 mg or placebo. Plasma concentrations of nebicapone, levodopa, and 3-OMD were determined by HPLC. Blood samples (7 mL) for determination of plasma concentrations of levodopa, 3-OMD, and 2258 nebicapone, as well as for the assay of S-COMT activity, were collected in potassium EDTA test tubes at the following times: predose and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, and 24 hours postdose. S-COMT activity was assessed as the amount of metanephrine formed by the action of S-COMT on an epinephrine substrate. Spontaneously reported clinical adverse events (AEs) were recorded throughout the study. Sixteen subjects (8 females, 8 males; mean [SD] age, 26.13 [6.29] years; weight, 69.4 [12.4] kg; body mass index, 24.0 [3.0] kg/m2) completed the 4 treatment periods and had data available for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses. Compared with placebo, levodopa C(max) increased 25%, 30%, and 34%, and AUC increased 14%, 37%, and 42% after administration of nebicapone 50, 100, and 200 mg, respectively. After administration of nebicapone 50, 100, and 200 mg, 3-OMD C(max) decreased 44%, 57%, and 58%, and 3-OMD AUC(0-infinity) decreased 33%, 37%, and 45%, respectively, compared with placebo. Extent of exposure to levodopa, as assessed by using AUC(0-t), increased with all doses of nebicapone in relationship to placebo, but the difference did not reach statistical significance. This may be related to a relatively high inter-subject variability: %CVs ranged from 48.0% with nebicapone 100 mg to 66.8% with placebo. Maximum S-COMT inhibition by nebicapone occurred at approximately 1.5 hours postdose and ranged from 57% with nebicapone 50 mg to 74% with nebicapone 200 mg. There was an inverse correlation between plasma concentrations of nebicapone and S-COMT activity; T(max) of nebicapone plasma concentrations and time to occurrence of the maximum inhibition of S-COMT activity appeared to correlate. Nineteen AEs were reported; 8 were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to treatment. All AEs were mild in severity. There were no serious AEs or discontinuations due to AEs. No abnormalities in liver enzyme levels were found. When administered concomitantly with a single dose of controlled-release levodopa 100 mg/benserazide 25 mg, single doses of nebicapone 50, 100, and 200 mg were well tolerated in these healthy adult volunteers, and dose dependently inhibited S-COMT activity and reduced 3-OMD formation compared with placebo. However, there was no significant difference in levodopa bioavailability.
21177984	In vitro evaluation of potential drug-drug interactions with ticagrelor: cytochrome P450 reaction phenotyping, inhibition, induction, and differential kinetics.	Ticagrelor is an orally administered, antiplatelet agent that inhibits the prothrombotic effects of ADP on the platelet by antagonizing the P2Y(12) receptor. Ticagrelor is a reversibly binding direct-acting P2Y(12) antagonist and does not require metabolic activation to achieve its antiplatelet effect. CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 appear to be the enzymes predominantly responsible for the formation of the ticagrelor active and inactive metabolites, AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX. The apparent K(m) values in human liver microsomes are 27.0 and 38.8 M, with V(max) values of 730 and 417 pmol/min/mg for AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX, respectively. Ticagrelor moderately inhibited CYP2C9 activity in human liver microsomes with an IC(50) of 10.5 M, while exhibiting little or no inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1. In human liver microsomes, ticagrelor inhibited midazolam 4-hydroxylation with an IC(50) of 8.2 M, while activating 1'-hydroxylation of midazolam. Studies with recombinant enzymes suggested that cytochrome b(5) and CYP3A4 interactions play a significant role in this differential kinetic behavior. Evaluated in fresh human hepatocytes at concentration up to 20 M, ticagrelor was not an inducer of CYP1A2 or CYP3A4. Although ticagrelor exhibited a tendency for CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 induction, its potential to cause drug interactions via the induction of these enzymes is low when its exposure at a therapeutic dose is considered.
24139424	Tolerability and pharmacokinetics of delayed-release dimethyl fumarate administered with and without aspirin in healthy volunteers.	Delayed-release dimethyl fumarate (DR-DMF) has cytoprotective and antiinflammatory properties and has recently been approved in the United States as an oral treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The most common adverse events associated with DR-DMF are flushing and gastrointestinal (GI) events, the incidences of which diminish over time. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the tolerability and pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of DR-DMF with or without concomitant acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), a cyclooxygenase inhibitor. Healthy volunteers (N = 56) were randomized to receive different dosing regimens of DR-DMF or matching placebo with or without pretreatment with 325 mg aspirin for 4 days. Plasma levels of the active metabolite monomethyl fumarate were assessed on days 1 and 4. Flushing and GI events were assessed using patient-reported scales. Potential flushing mediators were explored. DR-DMF showed a safety, tolerability, and PK profile consistent with previous clinical experience, with no evidence of accumulation. Pretreatment with aspirin had no effect on the primary PK parameters, AUC0-10h, or Cmax. Flushing severity, assessed by 2 subject-reported rating scales, was generally mild and was rated highest at the start of treatment. Pretreatment with aspirin reduced flushing incidence and intensity without affecting GI events or the PK profile of DR-DMF. In some DR-DMF-treated individuals, plasma concentrations of a prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) metabolite were increased. In healthy volunteers, DR-DMF was well tolerated over 4 days of dosing, with a PK profile consistent with that previously reported and no evidence of accumulation. Aspirin pretreatment reduced the incidence and intensity of flushing without affecting GI events or the DR-DMF PK profile. Elevated levels of PGD2 in some DR-DMF-treated individuals suggest that flushing may be, at least in part, prostaglandin mediated. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: ID: NCT01281111.
23293300	In vitro assessment of drug-drug interaction potential of boceprevir associated with drug metabolizing enzymes and transporters.	The inhibitory effect of boceprevir (BOC), an inhibitor of hepatitis C virus nonstructural protein 3 protease was evaluated in vitro against a panel of drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters. BOC, a known substrate for cytochrome P450 (P450) CYP3A and aldo-ketoreductases, was a reversible time-dependent inhibitor (k(inact) = 0.12 minute(-1), K(I) = 6.1 M) of CYP3A4/5 but not an inhibitor of other major P450s, nor of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A1 and 2B7. BOC showed weak to no inhibition of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), P-glycoprotein (Pgp), or multidrug resistance protein 2. It was a moderate inhibitor of organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 and 1B3, with an IC(50) of 18 and 4.9 M, respectively. In human hepatocytes, BOC inhibited CYP3A-mediated metabolism of midazolam, OATP1B-mediated hepatic uptake of pitavastatin, and both the uptake and metabolism of atorvastatin. The inhibitory potency of BOC was lower than known inhibitors of CYP3A (ketoconazole), OATP1B (rifampin), or both (telaprevir). BOC was a substrate for Pgp and BCRP but not for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1, organic cation transporter, or sodium/taurocholate cotransporting peptide. Overall, our data suggest that BOC has the potential to cause pharmacokinetic interactions via inhibition of CYP3A and CYP3A/OATP1B interplay, with the interaction magnitude lower than those observed with known potent inhibitors. Conversely, pharmacokinetic interactions of BOC, either as a perpetrator or victim, via other major P450s and transporters tested are less likely to be of clinical significance. The results from clinical drug-drug interaction studies conducted thus far are generally supportive of these conclusions.
12007764	Simultaneous determination of clomipramine and its desmethyl and hydroxy metabolites in plasma of patients by high-performance liquid chromatography after solid-phase extraction.	Clomipramine (CMI) is a typical tricyclic antidepressant with a wide clinical spectrum, being used in major depressive, panic and obsessive-compulsive disorders. The relationship between clinical response and plasma levels of clomipramine and its N-desmethylated (N-desmethylclomipramine, DMCMI) and hydroxy-metabolites remains unclear. In particular, limited information is available on the correlation with clinical response in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This study describes a new sensitive method to simultaneously determine CMI and its major N-desmethylated and hydroxy-metabolites present in human plasma by HPLC with a UV detector. After a solid-phase extraction from plasma (Isolute C2 columns) the separation of the compounds was performed on a Lichrospher CN column (250 x 4 mm, 5 microm with a 2-cm pre-column) by an eluent consisting of 10 mM K(2)HPO(4)-acetonitrile-methanol (35:25:40 v/v/v) at a flow of 1.5 ml/min. UV detector was set at 214 nm. The lower limit of quantification for all the analytes was at least 5 ng/ml. The coefficients of variation ranged between 2.0 and 4.9% with recovery rates between 97.0 and 100.3%. Linear regression analyses showed correlation coefficients between 0.98 and 0.99. This method is simple, fast and reliable with good specificity and sensitivity. Solid phase extraction is efficient and rapid, allowing the extraction of several plasma samples on the same day and may therefore be usefully and realistically applied in the clinical context. We thus investigated the relevance of plasma levels of CMI and its metabolites as a predictor of clinical outcome in a group of 15 patients with OCD.
18180274	Identification of the in vitro metabolites of 3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphthol[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione (ARQ 501; beta-lapachone) in whole blood.	3,4-Dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphthol[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione (ARQ 501; beta-lapachone) showed promising anticancer activity in phase I clinical trials as monotherapy and in combination with cytotoxic drugs. ARQ 501 is currently in multiple phase II clinical trials. In vitro incubation in fresh whole blood at 37 degrees C revealed that ARQ 501 is stable in plasma but disappears rapidly in whole blood. Our data showed that extensive metabolism in red blood cells (RBCs) was mainly responsible for the rapid disappearance of ARQ 501 in whole blood. By comparison, covalent binding of ARQ 501 and/or its metabolites to whole blood components was a minor contributor to the disappearance of this compound. Sequestration of intact ARQ 501 in RBCs was not observed. Cross-species metabolite profiles from incubating [(14)C]ARQ 501 in freshly drawn blood were characterized using a liquid chromatography-mass spec-trometry-accurate radioactivity counter. The results show that ARQ 501 was metabolized more rapidly in mouse and rat blood than in dog, monkey, and human blood, with qualitatively similar metabolite profiles. Six metabolites were identified in human blood using ultra-high performance liquid chromatography/time-of-flight mass spectrometry, and the postulated structure of five metabolites was confirmed using synthetic standards. We conclude that the primary metabolic pathway of ARQ 501 in human blood involved oxidation of the two adjacent carbonyl groups to produce dicarboxylic and monocarboxylic metabolites, elimination of a carbonyl group to form a ring-contracted metabolite, and lactonization to produce two metabolites with a pyrone ring to form a ring-contracted metabolite. Metabolism by RBCs may play a role in clearance of ARQ 501 from the blood compartment in cancer patients.
14977868	In vitro sulfoxidation of thioether compounds by human cytochrome P450 and flavin-containing monooxygenase isoforms with particular reference to the CYP2C subfamily.	Cytochrome P450 (P450) and flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) enzymes are major catalysts involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics. The sulfoxidation of the thioether pesticides, phorate, disulfoton, sulprofos, and methiocarb, was investigated. Using pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs), thioether compounds displayed similar affinities; however, phorate and disulfoton displayed higher intrinsic clearance rates than either sulprofos or methiocarb. The sulfoxidation of thioethers by HLMs was found to be predominantly P450-driven (85-90%) compared with FMO (10-15%). Among 16 cDNA-expressed human P450 isoforms and 3 human FMO isoforms examined, the following isoforms and their polymorphisms had the highest rates for sulfoxidation, as follows: phorate, CYP1A2, 3A4, 2B6, 2C9*1, 2C18, 2C19, 2D6*1, and FMO1; disulfoton, CYP1A2, 3A4, 2B6, 2C9*1, 2C9*2, 2C18, 2C19, 2D6*1, and FMO1; sulprofos, CYP1A1, 1A2, 3A4, 2C9*1, 2C9*2, 2C9*3, 2C18, 2C19, 2D6*1, and FMO1; methiocarb, CYP1A1, 1A2, 3A4, 2B6, 2C9*1, 2C19, 2D6*1, and FMO1. Among these isoforms, members of the CYP2C subfamily often had the highest affinities and clearance rates. Moreover, sulfaphenazole, a CYP2C9 competitive inhibitor, inhibited disulfoton sulfoxidation by CYP2C9 (IC50 0.84 microM) as well as in HLMs. Ticlopidine, a CYP2C19 mechanism-based inhibitor, inhibited disulfoton sulfoxidation by CYP2C19 (IC50 after coincubation, 43.5 microM; IC50 after preincubation, 4.3 microM) and also in HLMs. Our results indicate that current models of the substrate binding site of the CYP2C subfamily would not effectively predict thioether pesticide metabolism. Thus, the substrate specificity of CYP2Cs is more extensive than is currently believed, and some reevaluation of structure-activity relationships may be required.
3816020	Evidence for altered catalytic properties of the cytochrome P-450 involved in sparteine oxidation in poor metabolizers.	Sparteine metabolism was studied in human liver microsomes from nine extensive ([EM] urinary metabolic ratio [MR] less than 20) and four poor metabolizers ([PM] MR greater than 20). The formation of 2- and 5-dehydrospartein displayed monophasic Michaelis-Menten kinetics. In livers from PMs the formation of the major sparteine metabolite 2-dehydrosparteine was characterized by more than a thirtyfold increase in Michaelis-Menten constant (Km)(1880 +/- 1044 mumol/L) as compared with EM subjects with an MR less than 1 (58.3 +/- 38.8 mumol/L). EM subjects with an MR greater than 3 who may constitute heterozygous metabolizers showed Km values in between (658 +/- 301 mumol/L). There was no difference in maximum rate of metabolism (Vmax) of 2-dehydrosparteine formation between EM and PM subjects (101 +/- 39 vs. 86 +/- 52 pmol/min/mg). The formation of 5-dehydrosparteine exhibited a Km of 100 +/- 123 mumol/L similar to the Km of 2-dehydrosparteine formation. The urinary MR correlated positively with the Km for 2-dehydrosparteine formation. The intrinsic clearance for 2-dehydrosparteine showed a highly significant negative correlation with the MR. The pronounced differences in Km together with the significant correlation between Km and MR with no marked differences in Vmax between phenotypes suggest that the impaired oxidation capacity in PM subjects is more likely the result of a P-450 isozyme with altered catalytic properties rather than a decreased amount of enzyme.
16721905	Solid-phase extraction and large-volume sample stacking with an electroosmotic flow pump in capillary electrophoresis for determination of methotrexate and its metabolites in human plasma.	This paper describes approaches for large-volume sample stacking (LVSS) with an EOF pumpin CE for the determination of methotrexate (MTX) and its metabolites in human plasma. After pretreatment of plasma through a SPE cartridge, a large sample volume was loaded by hydrodynamic injection (3 psi, 70 s) into the capillary filled with phosphate buffer (70 mM, pH 6.0) containing 0.01% polyethylene oxide. Following removal of a large plug of sample matrix from the capillary using polarity switching (-25 kV), the separation of anionic analytes was subsequently performed without changing polarity again, achieving an improvement of sensitivity of around a 100-fold. The method was applied to therapeutic drug monitoring of MTX in one acute lymphoblastic leukemia patient. This study is one of very few applications showing the feasibility of LVSS in analysis of biological samples by CE.
21389120	Pharmacokinetics of the monohydroxy derivative of oxcarbazepine and its enantiomers after a single intravenous dose given as racemate compared with a single oral dose of oxcarbazepine.	Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is an antiepileptic drug. In humans, OXC is metabolized via reduction and conjugation. Monohydroxy derivative of OXC (MHD) is the major pharmacologically active component after OXC ingestion. This study was performed to characterize the disposition of the two enantiomers of MHD after oral and intravenous administration and to estimate the bioavailability of MHD after a single oral dose administration of OXC compared to a single intravenous administration of MHD. The study was performed in two parts. In a first pilot study, three intravenous doses were given in an ascending manner (150, 200, and 250 mg of MHD; one subject per dose level) to assess the safety, tolerability, and basic pharmacokinetics. Part two was an open, single-center, randomized, two-way crossover, single-dose trial in 12 healthy adult subjects (n = 6 males and n = 6 females) given OXC orally (one film-coated 300-mg tablet of OXC) and MHD intravenously (250 mg infused over 30 min). Concentrations of OXC and its metabolites were measured by means of high-performance liquid chromatography methods. OXC given as a tablet is completely absorbed in man under fasting conditions. When MHD is given intravenously, (S)-MHD predominates as free compound in plasma. When OXC is administered orally, the ratio of the area-under-the-curve values of (S)-MHD over (R)-MHD equals 3.8, indicating an enantioselective reduction of the prochiral carbonyl group of OXC.
20923245	Effects of rifampicin (rifampin) on the pharmacokinetics and safety of ambrisentan in healthy subjects: a single-sequence, open-label study.	Ambrisentan is a once-daily, endothelin (ET) type A receptor-selective antagonist approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Ambrisentan is primarily metabolized by glucuronidation and undergoes cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated oxidation to a lesser extent. To assess the effects of rifampicin (rifampin), a potent inducer of CYP3A4 and inhibitor of organic anion transporter polypeptides (OATPs), on the steady-state pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of ambrisentan. This was a 14-day, single-sequence, open-label study that was conducted in 24 healthy adults. Subjects were administered oral doses of ambrisentan (10mg) once daily on days 1 through 5 and were then co-administered ambrisentan (10mg) plus rifampicin (600mg) once daily on days 6 through 13. The steady-state pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan and its oxidative metabolite 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan were determined in the absence and presence of repeated administration of rifampicin. The main outcome measure was the analysis of ambrisentan pharmacokinetics (area under the plasma concentration-time curve during a dosage interval [AUC()], maximum plasma drug concentration [C(max)] and minimum plasma drug concentration [C(min)]) for steady-state ambrisentan alone (day 5) as compared with steady-state ambrisentan plus steady-state rifampicin (day 13). Adverse events (AEs), ECG recordings, vital signs and clinical laboratory parameters were monitored throughout the study and at follow-up. A transient increase (+87% [95% CI 79, 95]) in ambrisentan steady-state systemic exposure (AUC()) was observed during the first 2 days of rifampicin co-administration. However, in the presence of steady-state rifampicin, ambrisentan C(max) and AUC() values were similar (+2% [95% CI -7, 12] and -4% [-9, 2], respectively) to those observed for ambrisentan alone. Relative systemic exposure of 4-hydroxymethyl ambrisentan was unaffected by either acute or steady-state rifampicin. No serious AEs or AEs leading to withdrawal were reported and there were no clinically significant changes in vital signs, ECG recordings or clinical laboratory parameters with co-administration of ambrisentan and rifampicin. Steady-state rifampicin had no clinically relevant effects on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan. The overall safety profile of ambrisentan was similar in the presence and absence of rifampicin. No dose adjustment of ambrisentan should be required when it is co-administered with rifampicin, a strong inducer of CYP3A4 activity and inhibitor of OATPs.
22393121	Metabolic switching of BILR 355 in the presence of ritonavir. II. Uncovering novel contributions by gut bacteria and aldehyde oxidase.	Ritonavir (RTV) was used as a boosting agent to increase the clinical exposure of 11-ethyl-5,11-dihydro-5-methyl-8-[2-[(1-oxido-4-quinolinyl)oxy]ethyl]-6H-dipyrido[3,2-b:2',3'-e][1,4]diazepin-6-one (BILR 355), an inhibitor of the human immunodeficiency virus, by inhibiting the CYP3A-mediated metabolism of BILR 355. However, although the levels of BILR 355 increased upon concomitant administration of RTV, a metabolite of BILR 355, BILR 516, which was not detected previously in humans dosed with BILR 355 alone, became a disproportionate human metabolite with levels exceeding the parent levels at steady state. This was an unusual finding based on the in vitro and in vivo metabolic profiles of BILR 355 available at that time. Our studies reveal that BILR 355 is reduced to an intermediate, BILR 402, by gut bacteria and the reduced metabolite (BILR 402) is then oxidized by aldehyde oxidase to form BILR 516, the disproportionate human metabolite. The role of aldehyde oxidase helped to explain the somewhat unique formation of BILR 516 in humans compared with preclinical animal species. This article underlines the increasing importance of two individually atypical enzymes in drug development, gut bacterial biotransformation and aldehyde oxidase, which in combination provided a unique metabolic pathway. In addition, this article clearly elucidates an example of novel metabolic switching and, it is hoped, raises awareness of the potential for metabolic switching in combination drug therapies.
17003281	Enhanced formation of non-phenolic androgen metabolites with intrinsic oestrogen-like gene transactivation potency in human breast cancer cells: a distinctive metabolic pattern.	Breast cancer is a sex steroid hormone-dependent malignant neoplasia. The role of oestradiol in this malignancy has been well documented; however, the involvement of androgens has remained controversial. To determine the role of non-phenolic androgen metabolites in human breast cancer, we studied the metabolism of [(14)C] testosterone and [(14)C] androstenedione in oestrogen-dependent MCF-7 cells and non-oestrogen-dependent MDA-MB 231 cells, at different substrate concentrations (1-10 muM) and time periods (30 min-48 h). Cultured non-oestrogen-dependent HeLa and yeast cells served as controls. Metabolites were identified and quantified by reverse isotope dilution. A distinctive pattern of androgen metabolism was identified in MCF-7 cells, being the 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17beta-diol (3alpha,5alpha-diol) and its 3beta epimer (3beta,5alpha-diol), the major conversion products of testosterone (48.3%), with 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone as intermediary. The formation of 3alpha,5alpha-diol and 3beta,5alpha-diol (diols) was substrate concentration- and time-dependent, and abolished by finasteride. In contrast, very little of any diol formation was observed in MDA-MB 231, HeLa and yeast cell incubations. Additional enzyme gene expression studies revealed an overexpression of 5alpha-steroid reductase type-1 in MCF-7 cells, as compared with MDA-MB 231 cells. The oestrogen-like activities of diols were assessed in HeLa cells co-transfected with expression vectors for alpha or beta subtypes of the human oestrogen receptor (hER) genes and for an oestrogen-responsive reporter gene. The results show that 3beta, 5alpha-diol and to a lesser extent 3alpha,5alpha-diol bind with high relative affinity to hERalpha and hERbeta. Both diols induced hER-mediated reporter gene transactivation in a dose-response manner, similar to that induced by oestradiol, though with lower potency, an effect that was abolished by ICI-182 780. Furthermore, 3beta,5alpha-diol and to lesser extent 3alpha,5alpha-diol induced MCF-7 cell proliferation. The overall results demonstrated that MCF-7 cells exhibit enhanced expression and activity of androgen-metabolising enzymes, leading to rapid and large diol formation, and provide evidence that these androgen metabolites exert a potent oestrogen-agonistic effect, at genomic level, in oestrogen-dependent breast cancer cells. The data suggest that diols may act as in situ intracrine factors in breast cancer and that its formation can be pharmacologically inhibited.
19056412	Identification of drostanolone and 17-methyldrostanolone metabolites produced by cryopreserved human hepatocytes.	Methyldrostanolone (2alpha,17alpha-dimethyl-17beta-hydroxy-5alpha-androstan-3-one) was synthesized from drostanolone (17beta-hydroxy-2alpha-methyl-5alpha-androstan-3-one) and identified in commercial products. Cultures of cryopreserved human hepatocytes were used to study the biotransformation of drostanolone and its 17-methylated derivative. For both steroids, the common 3alpha- (major) and 3beta-reduced metabolites were identified by GC-MS analysis of the extracted culture medium and the stereochemistry confirmed by incubation with 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. Structures corresponding to hydroxylated metabolites in C-12 (minor) and C-16 were proposed for other metabolites based upon the evaluation of the mass spectra of the pertrimethylsilyl (TMS-d(0) and TMS-d(9)) derivatives. Finally, on the basis of the GC-MS and (1)H NMR data and through chemical synthesis of the 17-methylated model compounds, structures could be proposed for metabolites hydroxylated in C-2. All the metabolites extracted from hepatocyte culture medium were present although in different relative amounts in urines collected following the administration to a human volunteer, therefore confirming the suitability of the cryopreserved hepatocytes to generate characteristic metabolites and study biotransformation of new steroids.
14722322	Induction of drug metabolism enzymes and MDR1 using a novel human hepatocyte cell line.	Induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters can cause drug-drug interactions and loss of efficacy. In vitro induction studies traditionally use primary hepatocyte cultures and enzyme activity with selected marker compounds. We investigated the use of a novel human hepatocyte clone, the Fa2N-4 cell line, as an alternative reagent, which is readily available and provides a consistent, reproducible system. We used the Invader assay to monitor gene expression in these cells. This assay is a robust, yet simple, high-throughput system for quantification of mRNA transcripts. CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C9, UGT1A, and MDR1 transcripts were quantified from total RNA extracts from Fa2N-4 cells treated with a panel of known inducers and compared with vehicle controls. In addition, we used enzyme activity assays to monitor the induction of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. The Fa2N-4 cells responded in a similar manner as primary human hepatocytes. Treatment with 10 microM rifampin resulted in increases in CYP3A4 mRNA (17-fold) and activity (6-beta-hydroxytestoterone formation, 9-fold); and in CYP2C9 mRNA (4-fold) and activity (4'-hydroxydiclofenac formation, 2-fold). Treatment with 50 microM beta-naphthoflavone resulted in increases in CYP1A2 mRNA (15-fold) and activity (7-ethoxyresorufin O-dealkylation, 27-fold). UGT1A mRNA was induced by beta-naphthoflavone (2-fold), and MDR1 (P-glycoprotein) mRNA was induced by rifampin (3-fold). These preliminary data using a few prototypical inducers show that Fa2N-4 cells can be a reliable surrogate for primary human hepatocytes, and, when used in conjunction with the Invader technology, could provide a reliable assay for assessment of induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters.
14566442	Effect of the novel anxiolytic drug deramciclane on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the CYP3A4 probe drug buspirone.	Preliminary in vitro findings indicated that the novel anxiolytic drug, deramciclane is a substrate for the cytochrome P(450) (CYP) 3A4 isoenzyme. Moreover, its co-administration with buspirone, another anxiolytic drug, is likely in clinical practice. The primary objective of the present study was to evaluate the in vivo effects of deramciclane on CYP3A4 activity as measured by buspirone pharmacokinetics. The secondary objective was to study the possible pharmacodynamic interaction between these two anxiolytic drugs. Sixteen healthy subjects received 60 mg deramciclane or matched placebo for 8 days in this randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. On day 8 of both phases, the subjects received a 20-mg single dose of buspirone. Buspirone and its active metabolite, 1-pyrimidylpiperazine (1-PP), concentrations were measured for 24 h. Pharmacodynamic testing and measurement of plasma prolactin concentrations were carried out on day 7 and day 8 to assess the pharmacodynamic consequences of deramciclane and buspirone co-administration. Repeated administration of deramciclane had no effect on CYP3A4 activity as measured by buspirone pharmacokinetics. However, deramciclane administration caused an inhibition of the further, not CYP3A4-dependent, metabolism of 1-PP as evidenced by 84% increase in the AUC ( P<0.001) and 20% increase in the elimination half-life ( P=0.0012) of 1-PP. Deramciclane did not potentiate the buspirone-induced increase in prolactin secretion. No significant differences were found in the psychomotoric testing or the subjective maximum sedation between the deramciclane phase and the placebo phase, either before or after buspirone administration. Of 16 subjects, 5 experienced dizziness during both study phases. Deramciclane does not inhibit CYP3A4 activity as measured by buspirone pharmacokinetics, and there were no indications of relevant pharmacodynamic interaction after multiple doses of deramciclane and a single dose of buspirone.
21184745	In vitro liver metabolism of aclidinium bromide in preclinical animal species and humans: identification of the human enzymes involved in its oxidative metabolism.	The metabolism of aclidinium bromide, a novel long-acting antimuscarinic drug for the maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, has been investigated in liver microsomes and hepatocytes of mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and humans. Due to the rapid hydrolysis of this ester compound, two distinct radiolabeled forms of aclidinium were studied. The main biotransformation route of aclidinium was the hydrolytic cleavage of the ester moiety, resulting in the formation of the alcohol metabolite (M2, LAS34823) and carboxylic acid metabolite (m3, LAS34850), which mainly occurred non-enzymatically. By comparison, the oxidative metabolism was substantially lower and the metabolite profiles were similar across all five species examined. Aclidinium was metabolized oxidatively to four minor primary metabolites that were identified as monohydroxylated derivatives of aclidinium at the phenyl (M4) and glycolyl (m6 and m7) moieties of the molecule. The NADPH-dependent metabolite m4 involved the loss of one of the thiophene rings of aclidinium. Incubations with human recombinant P450 isoforms and inhibition studies with selective chemical inhibitors and antibodies of human P450 enzymes demonstrated that the oxidative metabolism of aclidinium is primarily mediated by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Additionally, up to eight secondary metabolites were also characterized, involving further hydrolysis, oxidation, or glucuronidation of the primary metabolites. Also, the liver oxidative metabolism of the alcohol metabolite (LAS34823) resulted in the production of one hydroxylated metabolite (M1) mediated by human CYP2D6, whereas the acid metabolite (LAS34850) was not metabolized enzymatically, although a minor non-enzymatic and NADPH-dependent reduction was observed.
11936683	Determination of triamterene and its main metabolite hydroxytriamterene sulfate in human urine by capillary electrophoresis using ultraviolet absorbance and laser-induced fluorescence detection.	Two capillary electrophoresis methods have been developed for the direct determination of triamterene and its main metabolite hydroxytriamterene sulfate in human urine. Analytes were detected using conventional UV detection as well as laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) detection with an HeCd-laser operating at a wavelength of 325 nm. The results of both detection techniques were compared. Indeed, the limit of quantification was eightfold lower using LIF detection (50 ng/ml) in comparison to UV detection (400 ng/ml). As no interference due to endogenous urine compounds was observed, direct urine analysis was feasible. Analysis was very simple and fast-one run could be performed within less than 10 min (CE-UV method) and 2.5 min (CE-LIF method), respectively. Both assays were fully validated and applied to urine samples from a human volunteer. The results of the application of the CE-LIF method to human urine samples are presented in this publication.
14977870	Regulation of CYP2B6 in primary human hepatocytes by prototypical inducers.	The objectives of this study were to evaluate the ability of 14 compounds, which differentially activate human pregnane X receptor (hPXR), to induce CYP2B6 expression and to compare CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 concentration- and time-dependent induction by select inducers. Three primary human hepatocyte preparations were treated daily for 3 days with three concentrations of all compounds. Additional concentration- and/or time-response studies were conducted with clotrimazole, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and rifampin in six preparations. CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 protein and activities were assessed by Western blotting, bupropion hydroxylation, and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, respectively. To evaluate hPXR activation by the 14 compounds, reporter gene assays were conducted using Huh7 cells cotransfected with hPXR and a CYP2B6 (NR1)5-LUC reporter plasmid. Clotrimazole, phenobarbital, rifampin, and ritonavir strongly induced CYP2B6 and activated hPXR; dexamethasone t-butylacetate and sulfinpyrazone induced CYP2B6 weakly and activated hPXR moderately; paclitaxel strongly activated hPXR but did not increase CYP2B6 expression; carbamazepine and phenytoin moderately or strongly increased CYP2B6 expression but weakly activated hPXR; and dexamethasone, methotrexate, probenecid, sulfadimidine, and troleandomycin demonstrated weak or negligible effects on CYP2B6 and hPXR. EC50 values for CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 induction by clotrimazole, phenobarbital, phenytoin, and rifampin were strongly correlated (r2 = 0.99) and were statistically indistinguishable for clotrimazole, phenytoin, and rifampin. Kinetic constants governing time-dependent induction by phenobarbital and rifampin were also similar between CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. These results indicate that CYP2B6 is highly inducible by known CYP3A4 inducers and suggest that hPXR is a major determinant of CYP2B6-inducible expression for many, but not all, compounds evaluated in this study.
20654585	Serine phosphorylation of glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) by PKC enhances GSTP1-dependent cisplatin metabolism and resistance in human glioma cells.	Recently, we reported that the human GSTP1 is phosphorylated and functionally activated by the PKC class of serine/threonine kinases. In this study, we investigated the contribution of this post-translational modification of GSTP1 to tumor cisplatin resistance. Using two malignant glioma cell lines, MGR1 and MGR3, the ability of PKC-phosphorylated GSTP1 to catalyze the conjugation of cisplatin to glutathione was assessed and correlated with cisplatin sensitivity and cisplatin-induced DNA interstrand cross-links and apoptosis of the cells. The results showed PKC activation and associated phosphorylation of GSTP1 to correlate significantly with increased glutathionylplatinum formation, decreased DNA interstrand cross-link formation and increased cisplatin resistance. Following PKC activation, the IC(50) of cisplatin increased from 13.63M to 36.49M in MGR1 and from 20.75M to 38.45M in MGR3. In both cell lines, siRNA-mediated GSTP1 or PKC transcriptional suppression similarly decreased cisplatin IC(50) and was associated with decreased intracellular levels of glutathionylplatinum metabolite. Combined inhibition/transcriptional suppression of both PKC and GSTP1 was synergistic in enhancing cisplatin sensitivity. Although, cisplatin-induced apoptosis was associated with the translocation of Bax to mitochondria, release of cytochrome c and caspase-3/7 activation, the levels of relocalized Bax and cytochrome c were significantly greater following GSTP1 knockdown. These results support a mechanism of cisplatin resistance mediated by the PKC-dependent serine phosphorylation of GSTP1 and its associated increased cisplatin metabolism, and suggest the potential of simultaneous targeting of GSTP1 and PKC to improve the efficacy of cisplatin therapy.
19622714	Coadministration of pioglitazone or glyburide and alogliptin: pharmacokinetic drug interaction assessment in healthy participants.	Alogliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor under investigation for treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Potential pharmacokinetic (PK) drug-drug interactions of alogliptin with pioglitazone or glyburide were evaluated in healthy adults. In a randomized, 6-sequence, 3-period crossover study (study I), participants (n = 30 enrolled; n = 27 completed) received monotherapy with pioglitazone 45 mg once daily (qd), alogliptin 25 mg qd, or coadministration of the 2 agents. The 12-day treatment periods were separated by a > or =10-day washout interval. In a nonrandomized, single-sequence study (study II), participants (n = 24 completed) received a single 5-mg dose of the sulfonylurea glyburide, alone and after 8 days of dosing with alogliptin 25 mg qd. Sequential samples of blood (both studies) and urine (first study) were obtained for determination of PK parameters for alogliptin, pioglitazone, their metabolites, and glyburide. Minor changes in PK parameters between combination therapy and monotherapy were obtained but not judged to be clinically relevant. The combination treatments were well tolerated, although glyburide frequently caused hypoglycemia. Most adverse events were of mild intensity and occurred with a frequency similar to that with monotherapy. It is concluded that pioglitazone or glyburide can be administered with alogliptin without dose adjustment to any component of the combination therapy.
8595701	Alternative cyclosporine metabolic pathways and toxicity.	There are some indications from clinical studies (41,43) for aberrant cyclosporine metabolism resulting in formation of potentially toxic metabolites. When the activity of cytochrome P450 3A enzymes is low, more substrate is available for hypothetical alternative pathways of cyclosporine. There are several reasons for low P450 3A activity in a liver graft such as inter-individual genetic variability (43,49,84), cold ischemia and reperfusion damage, changes of the P450 activity during cholestasis (85) or other liver diseases (86), the influence of cytokines (87) and drug interactions such as inhibition or enzyme induction (88). Furthermore, low concentrations of cytochrome P450 3A influence the cyclosporine blood trough concentrations. The P450 3A concentration as estimated by the erythromycin breath test can be used to calculate the initial cyclosporine dose required to obtain cyclosporine blood trough concentrations in the therapeutic window (89). In vitro such alternative pathways comprising 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible (44,46,47) and/or ethinyl estradiol-inducible cytochrome P450 enzymes (48) could be identified and resulted in production of cyclized cyclosporine metabolites. The exact identification of the P450 enzymes involved requires metabolism of cyclosporine using reconstituted purified enzymes or single P450 enzymes expressed in cell lines. In addition, it remains to be clarified whether cyclosporine itself or its metabolite AM1 is the substrate for cyclization. Because cyclized metabolites have a low affinity to cyclophilin (58,59) they are mainly found in plasma. When more cyclized metabolites are formed primarily the concentration of cyclosporine metabolites in plasma increases. The free fraction of cyclosporine at 37 degrees C was found to be 1%-1.5% (90,91) of the cyclosporine concentration in blood. To date, nothing is known about the free fraction of cyclosporine metabolites. Because distribution characteristics of the cyclized metabolites in blood and urine are different from those of cyclosporine, it can be speculated that the free fraction of the cyclized metabolites is higher than that of cyclosporine. This might be reflected by a higher renal clearance resulting in relatively higher concentrations in urine compared with blood (61; Figure 3). If this is the case, a shift in the metabolite pattern with increased concentrations of cyclized metabolites will lead to an overproportional increase of the free fraction of cyclosporine metabolites. Although it is tempting to assume that cyclization is the alternative pathway explaining cyclosporine toxicity in patients with low concentrations of P450 3A enzymes in the liver (Figure 6), this has not yet been proven and will require not only quantification of P450 3A but of the complete P450 enzyme pattern in the liver in combination with characterization of the cyclosporine metabolite pattern by HPLC with special respect to the cyclized metabolites AM1c and AM1c9. Also, it is still unclear whether or not the cyclized metabolites contribute to cyclosporine toxicity. At least, it is unlikely that they are involved in covalent binding to macromolecules in the liver and kidney (44,71). In a clinical study using an HPLC method which allowed the specific quantification of 16 cyclosporine metabolites it was shown that the blood trough concentrations of the cyclized metabolite AM1c9 is elevated during early nephrotoxicity in liver graft recipients (82) and it was shown in an in vitro model that AM1c9 increases endothelin production and therefore might have a negative effect on renal hemodynamics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
20697700	Oxycodone concentrations are greatly increased by the concomitant use of ritonavir or lopinavir/ritonavir.	this study aimed to investigate the effect of antivirals ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral oxycodone, a widely used opioid receptor agonist used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain. a randomized crossover study design with three phases at intervals of 4 weeks was conducted in 12 healthy volunteers. Ritonavir 300 mg, lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg, or placebo b.i.d. for 4 days was given to the subjects. On day 3, 10 mg oxycodone hydrochloride was administered orally. Plasma concentrations of oxycodone, noroxycodone, oxymorphone, and noroxymorphone were determined for 48 h. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated with standard noncompartmental methods. Behavioral effects and experimental cold pain analgesia were assessed for 12 h. ANOVA for repeated measures was used for statistical analysis. ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve of oral oxycodone by 3.0-fold (range 1.9- to 4.3-fold; P <0.001) and 2.6-fold (range 1.9- to 3.3-fold; P <0.001). The mean ( SD) elimination half-life increased after ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir from 3.60.6 to 5.6  0.9 h (P <0.001) and 5.70.9 h (P <0.001), respectively. Both ritonavir (P <0.001) and lopinavir/ritonavir (P <0.05) increased the self-reported drug effect of oxycodone. ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir greatly increase the plasma concentrations of oral oxycodone in healthy volunteers and enhance its effect. When oxycodone is used clinically in patients during ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir treatment, reductions in oxycodone dose may be needed to avoid opioid-related adverse effects.
7519439	Comparison of testosterone metabolism in benign prostatic hyperplasia and human prostate cancer cell lines in vitro.	Pathways of testosterone metabolism in tissue slices and cell suspensions of human benign hyperplastic prostate (BPH) tissue and human prostate cancer cell lines (DU145, HPC-36M, PC-3/MA2 and LNCaP) were investigated. Thin layer chromatography analysis was used to identify the following tritiated metabolites: testosterone, 5 alpha-dihydrostestosterone (DHT), 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha/3 beta-17 beta-diol (androstanediols), 4-androstene-3,17-dione (androstenedione) and 5 alpha-androstanedione. The predominant pathway for testosterone metabolism in BPH was via 5 alpha-reductase producing 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (71% and 75% total metabolites in slices and suspensions incubated for 24 h, respectively). The cancer cell lines DU145 and HPC-36M resembled BPH by metabolizing testosterone predominantly to DHT (68% and 82% total metabolites, respectively), although the rate of metabolism was much lower in the cell lines (0.099 and 0.05 pmol testosterone/mg protein/h in DU145 and HPC-36M) compared to the BPH cell suspensions (6.4 pmol testosterone/mg protein/h). In contrast, PC-3/MA2 contained high 17 beta-HSD activity forming large amounts of 4-androstene-3,17-dione (84% total metabolites), converting testosterone at a rate faster (12.8 pmol testosterone/mg protein/h) than the BPH cell suspensions. LNCaP rapidly converted testosterone exclusively to a glucuronide conjugate (7.4 pmol testosterone/mg protein/h), although after incubation with [3H]-4-androstene-3,17-dione, 5 alpha-reductase activity was demonstrated. LNCaP was the only cell line whose growth and colony-forming ability was stimulated by testosterone and DHT. BPH and all the cell lines tested had 5 alpha-reductase activity, but only the prostate tissue and the cell lines DU145 and HPC-36M converted testosterone predominantly to DHT.
15608135	Selective inhibition of human cytochrome P4502C8 by montelukast.	The leukotriene receptor antagonist montelukast was examined for its inhibition of the human drug-metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P4502C8 (CYP2C8). Montelukast was demonstrated to be a potent inhibitor of CYP2C8-catalyzed amodiaquine N-deethylase, rosiglitazone N-demethylase, and paclitaxel 6alpha-hydroxylase in human liver microsomes. Inhibition was also observed when the reaction was catalyzed by recombinant heterologously expressed CYP2C8. The mechanism of inhibition was competitive, with K(i) values ranging from 0.0092 to 0.15 microM. Inhibition potency was highly dependent on the microsomal protein concentration. Increasing the microsomal protein concentration by 80-fold yielded a 100-fold decrease in inhibition potency. Preincubation of montelukast with human liver microsomes and NADPH did not alter the inhibition potency, suggesting that montelukast is not a mechanism-based inactivator. Montelukast was a selective inhibitor for human CYP2C8; inhibition of other human cytochrome P450 enzymes was substantially less. These in vitro data support the use of montelukast as a selective CYP2C8 inhibitor that could be used to determine the contribution of this enzyme to drug metabolism reactions. These data also raise the possibility that montelukast could have an effect on the metabolic clearance of drugs possessing CYP2C8-catalyzed metabolism as a major clearance pathway, thereby eliciting pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions.
11876499	Metabolism and CYP-inducer properties of astaxanthin in man and primary human hepatocytes.	Previous investigations in the rat have shown that the non-provitamin A carotenoid astaxanthin is metabolized into 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-beta-ionone and 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-7,8-dihydro-beta-ionone and, in addition, is a potent CYP1A gene inducer. Here we investigated the metabolism of this compound as well as its capacity to induce CYP genes in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Free metabolites of 14C-astaxanthin produced in this cellular model were purified by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analyses as 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-beta-ionol and 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-beta-ionone. In addition, deconjugation of polar compounds by glusulase and further analyses with HPLC and GC-MS revealed four radiolabeled metabolites including: 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-beta-ionol, 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-beta-ionone, and their reduced forms, 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-7, 8-dihydro-beta-ionol and 3-hydroxy-4-oxo-7,8-dihydro-beta-ionone. The same four metabolites were identified in human plasma from two volunteers who had orally taken 100 mg astaxanthin 24 h before blood collection. In cultured hepatocytes, astaxanthin was a significant inducer of the major cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP3A4 as well as of CYP2B6, but not of other CYPs, including those from CYP1A and CYP2C families. The lack of autoinduction of astaxanthin metabolism in human hepatocytes suggests that neither CYP3A4 nor CYP2B6 contribute to the formation of metabolites. We conclude that metabolism of astaxanthin and its CYP-inducing capacity are different in humans and in rats. The novel methodology used in our studies could be extended to evaluating the role of metabolites of more important carotenoids such as beta-carotene in differentiation and carcinogenicity.
15258112	Evaluation of 5-hydroxytryptophol and other endogenous serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) analogs as substrates for UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6.	Serotonin is a specific in vitro substrate for human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A6. In this study, the contribution of UGT1A6 to the glucuronidation of endogenous structural analogs of serotonin, including 5-hydroxytryptophol, N-acetylserotonin, and 6-hydroxymelatonin, was evaluated using available recombinant human UGT isoforms, human liver microsomes, and liver microsomes from animals that do not express functional UGT1A6 (Gunn rats and cats). Only UGT1A6 and UGT1A9 were found to glucuronidate 5-hydroxytryptophol at a concentration of 2 mM, although the glucuronidation rate with UGT1A6 was over 10 times that of UGT1A9. K(m) values for human liver microsomes (156, 141, and 134 microM) were most similar to that of expressed UGT1A6 (135 microM) but vastly different from that of UGT1A9 (3674 microM). 5-Hydroxytryptophol glucuronidation by human liver microsomes (n = 54) correlated well with serotonin glucuronidation (R(s) = 0.83) and UGT1A6 protein content (R(s) = 0.85). 5-Hydroxytryptophol also competitively inhibited serotonin glucuronidation by human liver microsomes (K(i) = 291 microM) and UGT1A6 (K(i) = 200 microM). N-acetylserotonin was glucuronidated most extensively by UGT1A6, although UGT1A9 and UGT1A10 showed moderate catalysis. 6-Hydroxymelatonin was glucuronidated largely by UGT1A9 and UGT1A10 but not at all by UGT1A6. Gunn rat liver glucuronidation rates for serotonin, 5-hydroxytryptophol, N-acetylserotonin, and 6-hydroxymelatonin were 11, 5, 32, and 3%, respectively, of that of normal rat liver. Cat liver microsomes did not glucuronidate serotonin, whereas relatively low activities were observed for the other indole substrates. In conclusion, these results indicate that human UGT1A6 plays a predominant role in the glucuronidation of 5-hydroxytryptophol and N-acetylserotonin, whereas 6-hydroxymelatonin is not a substrate for this enzyme.
18356043	Identification of the human cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the in vitro biotransformation of lynestrenol and norethindrone.	This study examined the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme selectivity of in vitro bioactivation of lynestrenol to norethindrone and the further metabolism of norethindrone. Screening with well-established chemical inhibitors showed that the formation of norethindrone was potently inhibited by CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole (IC(50)=0.02 microM) and with CYP2C9 inhibitor sulphaphenazole (IC(50)=2.13 microM); the further biotransformation of norethindrone was strongly inhibited by ketoconazole (IC(50)=0.09 microM). Fluconazole modestly inhibited both lynestrenol bioactivation and norethindrone biotransformation. Lynestrenol bioactivation was mainly catalysed by recombinant human CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4; rCYP3A4 was responsible for the hydroxylation of norethindrone. A significant correlation was observed between norethindrone formation and tolbutamide hydroxylation, a CYP2C9-selective activity (r=0.63; p=0.01). Norethindrone hydroxylation correlated significantly with model reactions of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. The greatest immunoinhibition of lynestrenol bioactivation was seen in incubations with CYP2C-Ab. The CYP3A4-Ab reduced norethindrone hydroxylation by 96%. Both lynestrenol and norethindrone were weak inhibitors of CYP2C9 (IC(50) of 32 microM and 46 microM for tolbutamide hydroxylation, respectively). In conclusion, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are the primary cytochromes in the bioactivation of lynestrenol in vitro, while CYP3A4 catalyses the further metabolism of norethindrone.
2206022	Tiazofurin action in leukemia: evidence for down-regulation of oncogenes and synergism with retinoic acid.	New light was thrown on the action of tiazofurin in the treatment of end-stage leukemic patients and in leukemic cells in tissue culture. 1. In a population of 21 consecutive patients 50% responded to tiazofurin treatment, confirming the usefulness of this therapy in end-stage leukemia. 2. In leukemic patients treated with tiazofurin and allopurinol reciprocal action was manifested in the increase in hypoxanthine and the decrease in uric acid concentrations in the plasma. On discontinuation of allopurinol, hypoxanthine levels steeply declined but uric acid concentration increased slowly, taking days to reach pretreatment level. 3. With a new and sensitive method the concentration of the active metabolite of tiazofurin, TAD, was measured in the mononuclear cells of tiazofurin-treated patients. Approximately 5 to 13% of the plasma tiazofurin level was observed as TAD in the mononuclear cells. This TAD concentration was sufficient to account for the inhibition of IMP DH in these cells. 4. Tiazofurin or retinoic acid caused differentiation of HL-60 leukemic cells and inhibition of cell proliferation. 5. By treating leukemic cells incubated with tiazofurin or retinoic acid also with guanosine it was elucidated that the mechanism of the two drugs differed since only the tiazofurin effects were counteracted by guanosine. 6. Tiazofurin and retinoic acid together in HL-60 cells provided synergistic impact on differentiation and cytotoxicity. 7. Tiazofurin resulted in down-regulation of the expression of ras and myc oncogenes in three systems: K562 human erythroleukemic cells, rat hepatoma 3924A cells and human HL-60 leukemia cells. 8. Because both tiazofurin and retinoic acid are licensed drugs, their potential use in combination chemotherapy may have clinical relevance in the treatment of end-stage leukemia where our earlier studies have demonstrated the usefulness of tiazofurin.
7858703	Determination of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in plasma, as 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivative of aldophosphamide, by liquid chromatography.	A reversed-phase liquid chromatographic method to determine the concentration of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, a labile cytotoxic metabolite of cyclophosphamide, in plasma is described. In order to stabilize 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, as well as to increase the selectivity and the sensitivity, a 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivative was formed. Plasma proteins were precipitated with acetonitrile prior to the derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine at pH 2. The derivatization was performed at 50 degrees C for 5 min. The chromatographic system consisted of an octadecyl silica column and a mobile phase containing phosphate buffer and acetonitrile. Quantitation was performed using an UV detector operating at 357 nm. Optimal derivatization was obtained by adding 0.2 ml 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (3.8 mg/ml) to 0.5 ml of the deproteinized plasma supernatant. The relative recovery of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide from plasma is > or = 97%. Concentration levels down to 22 mg/ml of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in plasma could be determined with a R.S.D. of about 13%. No degradation of the derivative was observed after 24 h at room temperature. The t1/2 for 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide in blood is ca. 4 min at 37 degrees C, whereas 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide is stable for at least 1 h at 4 degrees C. Application of the method for the pharmacokinetic monitoring of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide is described.
16936066	The absorption, metabolism, and excretion of the novel neuromodulator RWJ-333369 (1,2-ethanediol, [1-2-chlorophenyl]-, 2-carbamate, [S]-) in humans.	RWJ-333369 (1,2-ethanediol, [1-2-chlorophenyl]-, 2-carbamate, [S]-; CAS Registry Number 194085-75-1) is a novel neuromodulator in clinical development for the treatment of epilepsy. To study the disposition of RWJ-333369, eight healthy male subjects received a single oral dose of 500 mg of (14)C-RWJ-333369. Urine, feces, and plasma were collected for analysis for up to 1 week after dosing. Radioactivity was mainly excreted in urine (93.8 +/- 6.6%) and much less in feces (2.5 +/- 1.6%). RWJ-333369 was extensively metabolized in humans, since only low amounts of parent drug were excreted in urine (1.7% on average) and feces (trace amounts). The major biotransformation pathways were direct O-glucuronidation (44% of the dose), and hydrolysis of the carbamate ester followed by oxidation to 2-chloromandelic acid, which was subsequently metabolized in parallel to 2-chlorophenyl glycine and 2-chlorobenzoic acid (mean percentage of the dose for the three acids together was 36%). Other routes were chiral inversion followed by O-glucuronidation (11%), and aromatic hydroxylation in combination with sulfate conjugation (5%). In plasma, unchanged drug accounted for 76.5% of the total radioactivity, with the R-enantiomer and the O-glucuronide of the parent drug as the only measurable plasma metabolites. With the use of very sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry techniques, only traces of aromatic (pre)mercapturic acid conjugates were detected in urine (each <0.3% of the dose), suggesting a low potential for reactive metabolite formation. In conclusion, the disposition of RWJ-333369 in humans is characterized by virtually complete absorption, extensive metabolism, and unchanged drug as the only significant circulating species.
20364427	Pharmacokinetics in mice and metabolism in murine and human liver fractions of the putative cancer chemopreventive agents 3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone and tricin (4',5,7-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone).	The flavones tricin (4',5,7-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone) and 3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (PMF) are under development as potential colorectal cancer chemopreventive agents as they reduced adenoma development in the Apc(Min) mouse model of intestinal carcinogenesis. Here, the pharmacokinetic properties and metabolism of these flavones after oral administration were compared in mice. C57BL/6 J mice received an oral bolus of PMF or tricin (807 mol/kg). Parent flavone and metabolites were analyzed by HPLC/UV in plasma, liver and gastrointestinal tissues. Flavones were incubated with mouse or human hepatic microsomes or 9000xg supernatant (S9), both fortified with a NADPH-generating system and either uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA, microsomes) or 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS, S9). Disappearance of substrate was assessed by HPLC/UV, metabolites were characterized by HPLC/MS/MS. Plasma concentrations and area under the plasma concentration versus time curve for PMF were higher than those for tricin. A mono-O-desmethyl PMF and several isomeric mono-O-desmethyl PMF glucuronides and sulfonates were major PMF metabolites in murine plasma, liver and intestinal tissue. In murine and human liver fractions, in vitro metabolic removal of tricin was faster than that of PMF. On kinetic analysis of metabolite generation in these incubations, apparent maximal velocity (V(max)) values for the generation of tricin O-glucuronide or O-sulfonate were consistently several fold higher than those characterizing the production of mono-O-desmethyl PMF glucuronides or sulfonates via the intermediacy of O-desmethyl PMF. The results suggest that inclusion of methoxy moieties confers metabolic stability onto the flavone scaffold.
14630365	Determination of thiopurine S-methyltransferase activity in erythrocytes using 6-thioguanine as substrate and a non-extraction liquid chromatographic technique.	A non-extraction high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method has been developed for the determination of 6-methylthioguanine (6-MTG), as part of the determination of thiopurine S-methyltransferase activity (TPMT) in erythrocytes. Erythrocyte lysate is added to a glass vial containing substrates and incubation buffer, which is then sealed for the rest of the analysis. Enzyme incubation, sample preparation, and analysis are then undertaken without further sample-handling steps. The need for a solvent extraction step has been overcome by heating the incubate to 85 degrees C to stop the enzyme reaction. The heat inactivation step precipitates protein which upon centrifugation forms a thin film in the bottom of the glass vial enabling the supernatant to be injected directly onto the HPLC system. The assay shows excellent precision and recovery with a within-batch imprecision giving a co-efficient of variation of 2.9% (mean=41.5 nmol 6-MTG/gHb/h, n=10) and 5.1% (mean=12.6 nmol 6-MTG/g Hb/h, n=10). The between-batch imprecision gives a co-efficient of variation of 8.2% (mean=11.1 nmol 6-MTG/gHb/h, n=11) and 7.3% (mean=41.0 nmol 6-MTG/gHb/h, n=16). Determination of the TPMT activity in 120 people shows a range of enzyme activity of 11.3-63.8 nmol 6-MTG/gHb/h with a mean and median activity of 34.8 and 34.2 nmol 6-MTG/gHb/h, respectively. TPMT is increasingly used in clinical practice to ensure optimisation of treatment with thioguanine drugs. This direct HPLC method minimises sample-handling, reduces inherent imprecision, the possibility of laboratory error and with the potential for further automation, makes it ideal for use in a regional referral laboratory.
1788978	Methylation of captopril in human liver, kidney and intestine.	1. The methylation of captopril was studied in the microsomal fraction from 20 human liver, 12 kidney, and 14 intestinal mucosa specimens. 2. The hepatic methyltransferase activity (mean +/- SD) was 477 +/- 204 pmol/min per mg. Renal and intestinal methyltransferase activities were 3 and 8 times lower, respectively, than hepatic activity. 3. The kinetics of methyltransferase with captopril as substrate were studied in four specimens of liver, kidney and intestine. The maximum velocities of reaction (mean +/- SD; pmol/min per mg) were 697 +/- 219 (liver), 456 +/- 120 (renal cortex), 264 +/- 77 (renal medulla) and 101 +/- 28 (ileum mucosa). Km values (mean +/- SD; mM) were 5.2 +/- 2.3 (liver) 4.3 +/- 1.7 (renal cortex) 4.1 +/- 1.5 (renal medulla) and 5.3 +/- 2.0 mM (ileum mucosa). Vmax is subjected to a marked tissue dependence whereas Km is similar in all tissues. 4. Liver is the primary site of captopril methylation whereas the intestine plays only a minor role. Kidney may contribute substantially to the hepatic methylation of captopril.
16171783	Phenotype-genotype variability in the human CYP3A locus as assessed by the probe drug quinine and analyses of variant CYP3A4 alleles.	The human cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) enzymes, which metabolize 50% of currently used therapeutic drugs, exhibit great interindividual differences in activity that have a major impact on drug treatment outcome, but hitherto no genetic background importantly contributing to this variation has been identified. In this study we show that CYP3A4 mRNA and hnRNA contents with a few exceptions vary in parallel in human liver, suggesting that mechanisms affecting CYP3A4 transcription, such as promoter polymorphisms, are relevant for interindividual differences in CYP3A4 expression. Tanzanian (n=143) healthy volunteers were phenotyped using quinine as a CYP3A probe and the results were used for association studies with CYP3A4 genotypes. Carriers of CYP3A4*1B had a significantly lower activity than those with CYP3A4*1 whereas no differences were seen for five other SNPs investigated. Nuclear proteins from the B16A2 hepatoma cells were found to bind with less affinity to the CYP3A4*1B element around -392 bp as compared to CYP3A4*1. The data indicate the existence of a genetic CYP3A4 polymorphism with functional importance for interindividual differences in enzyme expression.
21945416	Major furocoumarins in grapefruit juice I: levels and urinary metabolite(s).	Furocoumarins are phototoxic and photogenotoxic natural plant constituents occurring in cosmetics, food and drugs. Grapefruit juice is considered as a major dietary source of furocoumarins although few is known about the variability of furocoumarins in grapefruit juice. We analyzed the major furocoumarins in eight commercial grapefruit juices and in freshly prepared juices made from pink grapefruit obtained from German retailers. Bergaptol was the major furocoumarin in commercial juices, followed by bergamottin and 6',7'-dihydroxy-bergamottin (DHB), whereas an inverse picture (DHB>bergamottin>bergaptol) was obtained in freshly prepared juices. Results from different batches of a single brand of commercial juice, purchased over a period of 7 months, revealed a variability of about 50% for the individual furocoumarins and the sum. In a study with healthy volunteers, consumption of 900 ml commercial grapefruit juice (containing 12.5mg bergaptol, 6.9 mg bergamottin, and 0.6 mg DHB) resulted in an average urinary excretion of 0.36 mg free plus 13.23 mg conjugated bergaptol within 6h. Other furocoumarins were not found in urine. Thus, other grapefruit furocoumarins were obviously converted in the human body, at least in part, into bergaptol excreted in urine, since the excreted amount of bergaptol exceeded the consumed one.
18411400	Inhibitory effects of seven components of danshen extract on catalytic activity of cytochrome P450 enzyme in human liver microsomes.	The potential for herb-drug interactions has recently received greater attention worldwide, considering the fact that the use of herbal products becomes more and more widespread. The goal of this work was to examine the potential for the metabolism-based drug interaction arising from seven active components (danshensu, protocatechuic aldehyde, protocatechuic acid, salvianolic acid B, tanshinone I, tanshinone IIA, and cryptotanshinone) of danshen extract. Probe substrates of cytochrome P450 enzymes were incubated in human liver microsomes (HLMs) with or without each component of danshen extract. IC(50) and K(i) values were estimated, and the types of inhibition were determined. Among the seven components of danshen extract, tanshinone I, tanshinone IIA, and cryptotanshinone were potent competitive inhibitors of CYP1A2 (K(i) = 0.48, 1.0, and 0.45 microM, respectively); danshensu was a competitive inhibitor of CYP2C9 (K(i) = 35 microM), and cryptotanshinone was a moderate mixed-type inhibitor of CYP2C9 (K(i) = 8 microM); cryptotanshinone inhibited weakly and in mixed mode against CYP2D6 activity (K(i) = 68 microM), and tanshinone I was a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 (IC(50) = 120 microM); and protocatechuic aldehyde was a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 (IC(50) = 130 and 160 microM for midazolam and testosterone, respectively). These findings provided some useful information for safe and effective use of danshen preparations in clinical practice. Our data indicated that it was necessary to study the in vivo interactions between drugs and pharmaceuticals with danshen extract.
14643514	Toxicological detection of the new designer drug 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)piperazine and its metabolites in urine and differentiation from an intake of structurally related medicaments using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Studies are described on the toxicological analysis of the piperazine-derived designer drug 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)piperazine (MeOPP) in rat urine using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The authors' systematic toxicological analysis (STA) procedure using full-scan GC-MS after acid hydrolysis, liquid-liquid extraction and microwave-assisted acetylation allowed the detection of MeOPP and its metabolites 1-(4-hydroxy phenyl)piperazine and 4-hydroxyaniline in rat urine after administration of a single dose corresponding to doses commonly taken by drug users. Therefore, this procedure should also be suitable for detection of a MeOPP intake in human urine. However, the metabolites of MeOPP are not unique and can be produced from other drugs. Therefore, differentiation of use of this designer drug from use of the medicaments dropropizine, oxypertine or others, which are metabolized to the MeOPP isomer 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine, is discussed.
17555643	Quantification of tricyclic antidepressants and monoamine oxidase inhibitors by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in whole blood.	Here we describe a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the blood determination of tricyclic antidepressant drugs (amitriptyline, clomipramine, trimipramine, and imipramine, doxepin, mianserin, maprotyline, dosulepine, amoxapine), their active metabolites (desipramine, nortriptyline, demethylclomipramine, and nordoxepin), and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (toloxatone and moclobemide). A nontricyclic antidepressant (viloxazine) and two other anxiolytic drugs (buspirone and hydroxyzine) that could be encountered in toxicology have been included to this method. After a liquid-liquid extraction from blood, the compounds and their internal standard (methylrisperidone) were eluted on a XTerra RP18 column with a gradient of acetonitrile/ammonium formate buffer 4 mmol/L (pH 3.2). They were then detected by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry with multiple reaction monitoring mode. The calibration curves were linear over the range 5-100 ng/mL. The limit of quantification was 2 ng/mL for each compound. The bias were lower than 10%. Intraday and interday precisions, expressed as variation coefficient, were lower than 13%. The extraction recoveries were between 60 and 80% except for moclobemide, viloxazine, and toloxatone (10-60%). This specific and sensitive method allows management of intoxication and is suitable for the routine determination of antidepressants in forensic investigation.
19771428	Additive effects of drug transporter genetic polymorphisms on irinotecan pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics in Japanese cancer patients.	Effects of genetic polymorphisms/variations of ABCB1, ABCC2, ABCG2 and SLCO1B1 in addition to "UGT1A1*28 or *6" on irinotecan pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics in Japanese cancer patients were investigated. Associations between transporter haplotypes/variations along with UGT1A1*28 or *6 and SN-38 area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) or neutropenia were examined in irinotecan monotherapy (55 patients) and irinotecan-cisplatin-combination therapy (62 patients). Higher SN-38 AUC values were observed in ABCB1 2677G>T (A893S) (*2 group) for both regimens. Associations of grade 3/4 neutropenia were observed with ABCC2 -1774delG (*1A), ABCG2 421C>A (Q141K) and IVS12 + 49G>T ((#) IIB) and SLCO1B1 521T>C (V174A) (*15 x 17) in the irinotecan monotherapy, while they were evident only in homozygotes of ABCB1*2, ABCG2 (#) IIB, SLCO1B1*15 x 17 in the cisplatin-combination therapy. With combinations of haplotypes/variations of two or more genes, neutropenia incidence increased, but their prediction power for grade 3/4 neutropenia is still unsatisfactory. Certain transporter genotypes additively increased irinotecan-induced neutropenia, but their clinical importance should be further elucidated.
11206046	Screening for detection of new antidepressants, neuroleptics, hypnotics, and their metabolites in urine by GC-MS developed using rat liver microsomes.	A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) procedure for the detection of new antidepressants, neuroleptics, hypnotics, and their metabolites in urine is presented. The metabolites were first identified in rat liver microsome preparations by GC-MS after isolation and derivatization. Using these GC-MS data, a GC-MS screening was developed for urine as part of the authors' modified systematic toxicologic analysis procedure. After acid hydrolysis of a 2.5-mL aliquot of urine, a further aliquot was added. The mixture was then liquid-liquid extracted at pH 8-9, acetylated, and GC separated. Using mass chromatography with the ions m/z 58, 100, 120, 182, 195, 235, 261, 276, 284. and 293, the presence of new antidepressants, neuroleptics, hypnotics, and their metabolites could be indicated. Positive peaks could be identified by library search using the reference mass spectra recorded during the microsome studies. The intake of therapeutic doses of the following drugs could be monitored in urine: dosulepin, mirtazapine, moclobemide, nefazodone, trazodone, venlafaxine, and zolpidem. Olanzapine and zotepine were detectable in human urine only under steady-state conditions, and low-dose zopiclone was detectable only in overdose. The detection limit was less than 100 ng/mL (signal-to-noise ratio = 3) for the parent drugs.
22864948	Characterizing the disposition, metabolism, and excretion of an orally active pan-deacetylase inhibitor, panobinostat, via trace radiolabeled 14C material in advanced cancer patients.	Elucidating the metabolic profile of anticancer agent panobinostat is essential during drug development. Disposition, metabolism, and excretion profiles were characterized using trace radiolabeled (14)C-panobinostat in four patients with advanced cancer. Oral (14)C-panobinostat was administered and serial blood, plasma, and excreta samples were collected up to 7 days postdose for radioactivity and pharmacokinetic analyses. Metabolites in plasma and excreta were profiled using liquid chromatography (LC) with radiometric detection, and their structures elucidated using LC-tandem mass spectrometry. Radioactivity (87 %) was recovered in excreta within 7 days: 44-77 % dose recovery in feces and 29-51 % in urine. Circulating radioactivity was localized in plasma, with minor partitioning to blood. Minimal recovery in feces (<3.5 % of dose) suggested near-complete oral absorption. Maximum concentrations (median, 21.2 ng/mL; range, 13.4-41.5 ng/mL) were achieved within 1 h, and median (range) terminal half-life, apparent oral, and renal clearance was 30.7 h (27.6-33.2 h), 209 L/h (114-248 L/h), and 3.20 L/h (2.4-5.5 L/h), respectively. Approximately 40 metabolites were circulating in plasma, with biotransformation occurring primarily at the hydroxamic acid side chain and ethyl-methyl indole moiety. Metabolites derived from modification of the hydroxamic acid side chain were inactive for deacetylase inhibition. Panobinostat and its metabolites were excreted in similar amounts through the kidneys and liver with good dose recovery. Panobinostat was rapidly absorbed and cleared primarily through metabolism. Over half of its clearance was attributed to non-CYP-mediated pathways. Thus, CYP-mediated drug-drug interactions with panobinostat are predicted to be minor.
19553404	Pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of doripenem after 0.5-, 1-, and 4-hour infusions in healthy volunteers.	The pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of doripenem in healthy subjects were evaluated in 2 studies. Study 1 was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled dose-escalation study in which doripenem was administered for 7 days by infusion over 30 minutes (500 mg) or 1 hour (1000 mg). Study 2 was an open-label, randomized, 3-way crossover study in which each subject received a single dose of each of the following doripenem treatments on separate occasions: 500 mg infused over 1 hour, 500 mg infused over 4 hours, and 1000 mg infused over 4 hours. Doripenem exhibited linear pharmacokinetics with concordance between the studies for pharmacokinetic parameters. Doripenem did not accumulate with repeated dosing over 7 days. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) for doripenem 500 mg infused over 1 hour versus 4 hours was bioequivalent, and the AUC and Cmax increased proportionally with dose for the 500- and 1000-mg doses administered over 4 hours. These results, along with the stability profile of doripenem, support its use as a prolonged infusion. All regimens of doripenem were safe and well tolerated.
12766253	Avasimibe induces CYP3A4 and multiple drug resistance protein 1 gene expression through activation of the pregnane X receptor.	In vitro and clinical studies were conducted to characterize the potential of avasimibe, an acyl-CoA/cholesterol acyltransferase inhibitor to cause drug-drug interactions. Clinically, 3- and 6-fold increases in midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) oral clearance were observed after 50 and 750 mg of avasimibe daily for 7 days, respectively. A 40% decrease in digoxin (P-glycoprotein substrate) area under the curve was observed with 750 mg of avasimibe daily for 10 days. In vitro studies were conducted to define the mechanisms of these interactions. Induction was observed in CYP3A4 activity and immunoreactive protein (EC50 of 200-400 nM) in primary human hepatocytes treated with avasimibe. Rifampin treatment yielded similar results. Microarray analysis revealed avasimibe (1 microM) increased CYP3A4 mRNA 20-fold, compared with a 23-fold increase with 50 microM rifampin. Avasimibe induced P-glycoprotein mRNA by about 2-fold and immunoreactive protein in a dose-dependent manner. Transient transfection assays showed that avasimibe is a potent activator of the human pregnane X receptor (hPXR) and more active than rifampin on an equimolar basis. Drug-drug interaction studies for CYP3A4 using pooled human hepatic microsomes and avasimibe at various concentrations, revealed IC50 values of 20.7, 1.6, and 3.1 microM using testosterone, midazolam, and felodipine as probe substrates, respectively. Our results indicate that avasimibe causes clinically significant drug-drug interactions through direct activation of hPXR and the subsequent induction of its target genes CYP3A4 and multiple drug resistance protein 1.
14517707	Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic interaction between BIA 3-202, a novel COMT inhibitor, and levodopa/benserazide.	BIA 3-202 is a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor being developed for use as a levodopa-sparing agent in Parkinson's disease. This study investigated the effect of four single oral doses of BIA 3-202 (50 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, and 400 mg) compared with placebo on plasma concentrations of levodopa and its metabolite 3- O-methyl-levodopa (3-OMD) and on inhibition of erythrocyte COMT in healthy subjects receiving 100 mg of levodopa and 25 mg of benserazide (Madopar 125). This was a single-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, crossover study with five single-dose treatment periods. The washout period between doses was 2 weeks. On each treatment period, a different dose of BIA 3-202 or placebo was administered concomitantly with Madopar 125. Tolerability was assessed by recording adverse events, vital signs, continuous electrocardiogram and clinical laboratory parameters. In the study, 18 subjects (12 male and 6 female) participated. The drug combination was well tolerated. All doses of BIA 3-202 significantly increased the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) versus placebo, ranging from 39% (95% confidence intervals, 1.06-1.69) with 50 mg to 80% (95% confidence intervals, 1.42-2.22) with 400 mg. No significant change in mean maximum plasma concentrations (C(max)) of levodopa was found. Mean C(max) and AUC of 3-OMD significantly decreased for all doses tested. BIA 3-202 caused a rapid and reversible inhibition of S-COMT activity, ranging from 57% (50 mg) to 84% (400 mg). In conclusion, the novel COMT inhibitor BIA 3-202 was well tolerated and significantly increased the bioavailability of levodopa and reduced the formation of 3-OMD when administered with standard release levodopa/benserazide.
6115029	The in vivo metabolism of Althesin (alphaxalone + alphadolone acetate) in man.	Gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry has been used to study the metabolism of Althesin (alphaxalone and alphadolone acetate) in man. Two metabolites, 20 alpha-reduced alphaxalone and alphadolone, as well as the two parent steroids, have been detected in the plasma during and after an infusion of Althesin. The main urinary metabolites were alphaxalone and 20 alpha-reduced alphaxalone, with smaller amounts of alphadolone, all of which were excreted mainly as the glucuronide conjugates. No alphadolone acetate was detected in the urine. In 3 patients in whom bile was collected over the 1st 24 h post-operation from an indwelling T-tube, it has not been possible using the methods described to detect in bile the presence of the parent steroids, or any of their probable metabolites.
17245652	Paclitaxel-2'-Ethylcarbonate prodrug can circumvent P-glycoprotein-mediated cellular efflux to increase drug cytotoxicity.	The aim of the study was to investigate whether 2'-ethylcarbonate-linked paclitaxel (TAX-2'-Et) circumvents P-glycoprotein (P-gp)-mediated cellular efflux and cytotoxicity enhanced by TAX-2'-Et activation within human culture cells transfected with a rabbit liver carboxylesterase (Ra-CES) cDNA. TAX-2'-Et transport was characterized in a human colon carcinoma cell line (Caco-2) and paclitaxel (TAX)-resistant ovarian carcinoma cells (SKOV3/TAX60). Expression of P-gp, multidrug resistance protein (MRP) 2 and Ra-CES was detected by Western blotting. Cytotoxicity against Ra-CES-expressing cells and cellular amount of TAX produced were determined by MTT assay and using HPLC, respectively. Unlike rhodamine123 and TAX, TAX-2'-Et did not exhibit polarized transport in the Caco-2 cells in the absence or presence of verapamil. P-gp levels were expressed much higher in the SKOV3/ TAX60 cells than in the Caco-2 cells. MRP2 protein was not detectable in the SKOV3/TAX60 cells. Uptake by the SKOV3/TAX60 cells was similar in quantity to the amount internalized by P-gp-negative SKOV3 cells. In the SKOV3/TAX60 cells, cellular uptake of TAX-2'-Et was not altered regardless of the absence or presence of verapamil. The cytotoxicity to the untransfected SKOV3 cells induced by TAX-2'-Et was significantly lower than that induced by TAX. In the Ra-CES-expressing SKOV3 line, the EC50 value of TAX (10.6 nM) was approximately four-fold higher than that of TAX-2'-Et (2.5 nM). Transfection of Ra-CES into another TAX-resistant ovarian carcinoma cells (KOC-7c) conferred a high level of TAX-2'-Et cytotoxicity via prodrug activation. The intracellular levels of TAX produced from TAX-2'-Et in the Ra-CES-positive KOC-7c cells significantly increased compared with the levels seen in exposure of the untransfected KOC-7c cells to TAX. TAX-2'-Et can circumvent P-gp-associated cellular efflux of TAX. TAX-2'-Et is converted into TAX by the Ra-CES, supporting its potential use as a theoretical GDEPT strategy for cancer cells expressing high levels of P-gp. The TAX-2'-Et prodrug efficiently increased the amount of intracellular TAX, which mediates tumor cell death.
7975727	Use of organotypical cultures of primary hepatocytes to analyse drug biotransformation in man and animals.	1. In conventional single-gel culture systems for primary hepatocytes, rapid loss of drug metabolizing capacities is a common feature and parallels general loss of function. An organotypical (double gel) culture technique for primary hepatocytes is established by enclosing the cells within two layers of extra cellular matrix. This serves to imitate the in vivo microenvironment within the space of Diss. Using rat hepatocytes, this technique has been shown previously to maintain protein synthetic functions in vitro and to allow more efficient P450A-dependent biotransformation of drugs than a standard single-gel culture system. 2. The aim was to test the capacity of this organotypical culture model for primary rat and human hepatocytes to generate drug metabolites in a typical species-dependent pattern. 3. Urapidil, an antihypertensive drug, was used as a test compound, since it is metabolized in vivo in a species-dependent manner in rat and man. 4. Primary rat and human hepatocytes were cultured within two layers of collagen and exposed to 2.25 micrograms/ml urapidil for periods of 1-24 h at 3 days in culture. Urapidil metabolites were measured using hplc. 5. Metabolite M1 (hydroxylated product) was produced preferentially in human hepatocyte cultures, and metabolites M2/M3 (O-demethylated, N-demethylated product) were preferentially generated in rat cultures. This corresponded to the in vivo pattern found in man and rat, respectively. 6. Since in vitro urapidil metabolism by human and rat hepatocytes cultured in a double-gel system reflects that in vivo, it is suggested that information from such a system may be useful to predict the metabolic pathway of novel xenobiotics and to direct further toxicological evaluation.
12386133	Stereoselective conjugation of oxazepam by human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs): S-oxazepam is glucuronidated by UGT2B15, while R-oxazepam is glucuronidated by UGT2B7 and UGT1A9.	(R,S)-Oxazepam is a 1,4-benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug that is metabolized primarily by hepatic glucuronidation. In previous studies, S-oxazepam (but not R-oxazepam) was shown to be polymorphically glucuronidated in humans. The aim of the present study was to identify UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms mediating R- and S-oxazepam glucuronidation in human liver, with the long term objective of elucidating the molecular genetic basis for this drug metabolism polymorphism. All available recombinant UGT isoforms were screened for R- and S-oxazepam glucuronidation activities. Enzyme kinetic parameters were then determined in representative human liver microsomes (HLMs) and in UGTs that showed significant activity. Of 12 different UGTs evaluated, only UGT2B15 showed significant S-oxazepam glucuronidation. Furthermore, the apparent K(m) for UGT2B15 (29-35 microM) was similar to values determined for HLMs (43-60 microM). In contrast, R-oxazepam was glucuronidated by UGT1A9 and UGT2B7. Although apparent K(m) values for HLMs (256-303 microM) were most similar to UGT2B7 (333 microM) rather than UGT1A9 (12 microM), intrinsic clearance values for UGT1A9 were 10 times higher than for UGT2B7. A common genetic variation results in aspartate (UGT2B15*1) or tyrosine (UGT2B15*2) at position 85 of the UGT2B15 protein. Microsomes from human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293 cells overexpressing UGT2B15*1 showed 5 times higher S-oxazepam glucuronidation activity than did UGT2B15*2 microsomes. Similar results were obtained for other substrates, including eugenol, naringenin, 4-methylumbelliferone, and androstane-3alpha-diol. In conclusion, S-oxazepam is stereoselectively glucuronidated by UGT2B15, whereas R-oxazepam is glucuronidated by multiple UGT isoforms. Allelic variation associated with the UGT2B15 gene may explain polymorphic S-oxazepam glucuronidation in humans.
11843040	Phenol toxicity and conjugation in human colonic epithelial cells.	Colonic epithelial cells are exposed to a range of potentially harmful luminal factors. including phenols, but it is unresolved whether these compounds impair the integrity of the epithelium. The aim of this study was to describe the effect of phenol exposure on human colonic epithelial cells in vitro and the conjugation pathways involved in detoxification. Primary human colonic epithelial cell cultures or HT-29 cell cultures were exposed to paracetamol, dinitrophenol or phenol (0.1-5 mM) for 24 h. Cell viability was measured using the methyltetrazoleum test. Phenol conjugation products released from cell cultures were identified by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Phenol glucuronidase (PGD) and sulphotransferase (PST) enzyme activities were measured in isolated cell homogenates. Paracetamol, dinitrophenol and phenol (>1.25 mM) significantly impaired the viability of primary colonic epithelial cell cultures. No differences between cell cultures from ulcerative colitis and control patients were observed. Paracetamol (5 mM) also induced significant cell damage in HT-29 cells. Glucuronidation was the preferred conjugation pathway in both cell models, despite the presence of PGD and PST activity. Phenols have a direct toxic effect on human colonic epithelial cells in vitro, which supports the view that dietary fermentation metabolites may be involved in the modulation of chronic bowel inflammation.
8202442	Effects of omeprazole on ethanol metabolism: an in vitro and in vivo rat and human study.	Since some H2-receptor antagonists, like cimetidine or ranitidine, affect ethanol metabolism by interference with gastric and/or hepatic alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) it was investigated whether omeprazole has a similar effect and its effects were compared with those of cimetidine, an inhibitor of gastric ADH. The first-pass metabolism (FPM), quantified by measuring the difference between areas under the curve (AUC) of ethanol blood concentrations after oral intake or intravenous administration of the same amount (0.3 g kg-1 b.w.) of ethanol (EtOH), was studied before and after 1 week of omeprazole (20 mg daily) or cimetidine (800 mg daily) administration in 10 normal male volunteers. ADH activity was determined in gastric mucosal samples, collected during endoscopy, before and after 1 month of omeprazole treatment. The effect of the drugs on gastric and hepatic ADHs was studied in vitro in both rat and man. No significant effect of omeprazole was found on AUCs of the blood EtOH concentrations. The ADH activity in antral mucosa before and after omeprazole therapy did not show significant differences. In vitro, omeprazole reduced the activity of the low Km gastric ADH with a Ki of 5.6 mM in rat and the hepatic ADH activity with a Ki of 2.4 mM in man, whereas the drug did not show any effect on hepatic ADH in rat and gastric ADH in man. On the contrary, cimetidine increased the AUCs of EtOH blood concentrations after both gastric and intravenous route and, in the in vitro assay, inhibited gastric and hepatic ADH in both man and rat. These results indicate that omeprazole does not affect EtOH metabolism in man and seems to be safer than cimetidine in subjects unable to reduce ethanol intake during the therapy for peptic ulcer or other hypersecretory conditions.
23748747	Interaction of ambrisentan with clarithromycin and its modulation by polymorphic SLCO1B1.	We assessed the effect of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and the OATP1B1 inhibitor clarithromycin on ambrisentan steady-state kinetics and its relationship to the SLCO1B1 15 haplotype in healthy volunteers. In this open-label, monocenter, one-sequence crossover clinical trial ten male healthy participants were stratified according to CYP2C19 and SLCO1B1 (encoding for OATP1B1) genotype into two groups: group 1 (n=6), with CYP2C19 1/1 (extensive metabolizer, EM) and SLCO1B1 wild-type; group 2 (n=4), with CYP2C19 EM and homozygous (n=3) or heterozygous for SLCO1B1 15 (n=1). The participants were administered a once-daily oral dose of 5 mg ambrisentan on study days 1 and days 3-14 and twice-daily oral doses of 500 mg clarithromycin on study days 11-14. To monitor CYP3A activity 3 mg midazolam was given orally 1 day before the first ambrisentan administration and on days 1, 10, and 14 of ambrisentan treatment. Ambrisentan plasma kinetics was assessed on days 1 (single dose), 10 (steady-state), and 14 (CYP3A4/OATP1B1 inhibition by clarithromycin). Consistent with the expectation that ambrisentan does not induce its own metabolism, ambrisentan exposure and peak concentration (Cmax) were similar after the first dose and at steady-state. Clarithromycin increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve of ambrisentan by 41 % and Cmax by 27 % (n=10, both p<0.05). No contribution of SLCO1B1*15 to the extent of this interaction was observed. Clarithromycin increased ambrisentan exposure to a similar extent to ketoconazole, namely, clinically minor and likely irrelevant.
12504795	Yessotoxin, a novel phycotoxin, activates phosphodiesterase activity. Effect of yessotoxin on cAMP levels in human lymphocytes.	Yessotoxin (YTX) is a novel phycotoxin with an unknown mechanism of action that has been reported as cardiotoxic, when injected, but non-toxic if ingested orally. In this paper, we studied the effect of YTX on adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) pathway, since this pathway can be a cellular target to this toxin as happens in other diarrhetic toxins. We determined cAMP levels by enzymeimmunoassay and by using the cAMP dye recombinant fluorescein- and rhodamine-labeled protein kinase A, which increases their fluorescence when cAMP levels are increased. In the presence of YTX, and after a transient small increase, cAMP levels were decreased. This effect was Ca(2+) dependent since in a Ca(2+)-free medium YTX increased cAMP levels, but this event was reverted after addition of external calcium. YTX also reverted the increase of cAMP induced by the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin. These variations in fluorescence units were confirmed when cAMP levels were measured by enzymeimmunoassay, YTX decreases cAMP from 52.81+/-3.66 to 44.53+/-4.5 fmol. Phosphodiesterase (PDE) IV inhibitors, rolipram or etazolate, did not modify the effect of YTX, however, when PDE IV was first inhibited no effect of YTX was observed. On the other hand, the PDE III inhibitor milrinone counteracted the effect of YTX, and a similar effect was observed with the unspecific PDE I inhibitor chlorpromazine. These results point to an effect of YTX on PDE activity. In the presence of YTX, the fluorescent PDE substrate Mant-cAMP, increased its rate of hydrolysis, the same as the PDE from bovine brain increased the hydrolysis of cAMP substrate. In addition, YTX increased interleukin-2 production, which indirectly confirms a decrease in cAMP. Although results show a very complex pattern of responses, due to the interactions and crosstalks between many systems, results suggest that YTX is a PDE activator in the presence of external Ca(2+).
17146732	A phase I study of oral LY293111 given daily in combination with irinotecan in patients with solid tumours.	LY293111 is an oral agent known to be a leukotriene B4 (LTB4) receptor antagonist and a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor resulting in selective inhibition of the lipoxygenase pathway. Lipoxygenases metabolize arachidonic acid and have been involved in cancer cell proliferation and survival. In addition, LY293111 has been found to be a peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonist. Antineoplastic activity of LY293111 has been identified in preclinical models both alone and in combination with chemotherapy agents including irinotecan. The NCIC Clinical Trials Group studied LY293111 in combination with irinotecan to determine the recommended dose of the combination and to describe its tolerability and pharmacokinetic interaction. In addition the anti-tumour activity of LY293111 in combination with irinotecan was documented. Twenty-eight patients with advanced solid tumours were treated on seven dose levels with the combination of irinotecan and LY293111. Irinotecan was administered intravenously every 21-days as a single dose. LY293111 was administered twice daily continuously by mouth. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of grade 3 diarrhea was seen in two patients with doses of irinotecan 300 mg/m(2) IV every 21-days in combination with LY293111 300 mg BID. Subsequently the dose of irinotecan was decreased to 250 mg/m(2) IV every 21-days with escalating doses of LY293111. A DLT of grade 3 abdominal pain was seen at dose 600 mg BID of LY293111 with irinotecan 250 mg/m(2). The pharmacokinetics (PK) indicated that the administration of LY293111 did not have an effect on the PK of irinotecan or its metabolite SN-38. No responses were seen; seven patients had stable disease of a median duration of 4.4 months (range 2.8-13 months). The recommended phase II dose of LY293111 is 600 mg orally BID in combination with irinotecan 250 mg/m(2) IV every 21-days. Gastrointestinal adverse effects were common but could be well managed.
22664057	Biotransformation of flavonols and taxifolin in hepatocyte in vitro systems as determined by liquid chromatography with various stationary phases and electrospray ionization-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry.	Liquid chromatography (LC) on various stationary phases was used for the metabolite profile analysis of quercetin, rutin, isoquercitrin and taxifolin. The metabolites were obtained using an in vitro model system of human and rat hepatocytes in the form of cell suspensions and the primary cultures. For separations of the parent compounds and their metabolites, stationary phases based on C, C, cyanopropyl (CNP) or phenyl (PHE) modifications of silica were tested. CNP and PHE stationary phases operating in reversed-phase mode have been shown to be efficient for separation of parent flavonoids and their polar metabolites. Individual metabolites were identified on the basis of an elemental composition determination using electrospray ionization-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (ESI-QqTOF MS) on-line connected with an LC system. Detailed analytical parameters such as retention times, selectivity, resolution of chromatographic peaks, MS fragmentation and UV-vis absorption maxima were determined for individual metabolites, namely for phase II biotransformation products. The predominant metabolites were methylated flavonols and flavonol glucuronides. The highest biotransformation rate was found with taxifolin, which was mainly converted to sulfates. The HPLC/ESI-QqTOF MS analyses revealed that quercetin and taxifolin were metabolized more extensively than the studied glycosides, rutin and isoquercitrin.
15498517	A methylester of the glucuronide prodrug DOX-GA3 for improvement of tumor-selective chemotherapy.	The glucuronide prodrug of doxorubicin, DOX-GA3, can be selectively activated in tumors by extracellular human beta-glucuronidase, resulting in a better therapeutic index than doxorubicin. DOX-GA3, however, is rapidly excreted by the kidney. We hypothesized that slow release of DOX-GA3 from its methylester, DOX-mGA3, by esterase activity in blood would result in improved circulation half-life (t(1/2)) of DOX-GA3. DOX-mGA3 was synthesized more efficiently with an overall yield of 60% as compared to 37% in the case of DOX-GA3. We showed that DOX-mGA3 was enzymatically converted to DOX-GA3 with a t(1/2) of approximately 0.5 min in mouse plasma to 2.5 h in human plasma, which was in agreement with differences in esterase activity between species. DOX-mGA3, similar to DOX-GA3, was at least 37-fold less potent than the parent drug doxorubicin in growth inhibition of four different human malignant cell lines in vitro. Incubation of OVCAR-3 cells with DOX-mGA3 in combination with an excess of human beta-glucuronidase (0.05 U mL(-1)) resulted in a similar growth inhibition to that of doxorubicin. Intravenous administration of DOX-mGA3 in FMa-bearing mice resulted in an area under the concentration versus time curve (AUC) of DOX-GA3 in tumor and most normal tissues that was 2.5- to 3-fold higher than after the same dose of DOX-GA3 itself. In tumor tissue, this was accompanied by a 2.7-fold increase in the AUC of doxorubicin from DOX-mGA3 than from DOX-GA3. In conclusion, an advantage of DOX-mGA3 over DOX-GA3 is that this prodrug can be produced with a higher yield. Another important advantage is the improved pharmacokinetics of the lipophilic DOX-mGA3 as compared to that of the hydrophilic DOX-GA3. This effect may even be more pronounced in man, because of the lower plasma esterase activity than measured in mice.
15365654	Pharmacokinetics and transplacental transfer of lidocaine and its metabolite for perineal analgesic assistance to pregnant women.	Obstetrical analgesia continues to be challenging to science in the search for safe and effective methods that will permit the use of these procedures allied to improved obstetrical and perinatal results. The objective of the present study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics and the placental transfer of lidocaine and its metabolite in parturients whose pregnancies were resolved by the vaginal route under perineal analgesia. The study was conducted on 23 pregnant women who received perineal analgesia with 20 ml 2% lidocaine (400 mg) during the expulsive period of labor. Maternal venous blood samples were obtained from 0 min to 360 min after drug administration, and umbilical venous blood was obtained at delivery. Lidocaine and monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography. The fetal/maternal ratios of the drugs were determined on the basis of maternal and fetal concentrations at delivery. Maximum lidocaine concentrations at the median times of 15 min were 3.22 microg/ml. The pharmacokinetic parameters were: half-life t1/2alpha 24.0 min, area under the curve (AUC)0-infinity 460.2 microg/min per ml, t1/2beta 180.0 min, clearance 12.2 ml/min per kg and volume distribution 3.1 l/kg. The fetal/maternal ratio for lidocaine at delivery was 0.46, with the latency time between drug administration and delivery being 11.0 min. Maximum MEGX concentrations at the median time of 90 min were 229.0 ng/ml. The t1/2 for MEGX was 240 min, and AUC0-infinity was 82.4 microg min/ml. Lidocaine administered by the perineal route presented a tmax of 15 min, significantly lower than when the drug was administered peridurally, revealing that the time between administration and the occurrence of the analgesic effect was shorter. The study demonstrated placental transfer of lidocaine at ratios of about 50% for lidocaine at the time of delivery. The MEGX placental transfer demonstrated fetal concentration higher than the maternal at the time of delivery.
20022567	Methodological issues in the biological monitoring of urinary benzene and S-phenylmercapturic acid at low exposure levels.	Biological monitoring of low level exposure to pollutants is a very challenging analytical activity, and the quality of results is difficult to assess, especially when a certified reference material is unavailable. The aim of this work was to evaluate the reliability of the assays used to measure urinary benzene (Benz-U) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA), by applying an internal quality control protocol. Urine spot samples from 705 subjects who were either members of the general urban population, gasoline station attendants, or refinery plant workers were assayed for Benz-U and SPMA, using GC/MS and LC/MS/MS, with quantification limits of 15 ng/L and 0.10 g/L. The median Benz-U concentration was 263 ng/L (60-2789 ng/L, 5th-95th percentile), and the median SPMA concentration was 0.19 g/L (<0.1-2.5 g/L, 5th-95th percentile). Linearity of both assays was good, but a less-than-proportional response was found for SPMA concentrations below 1 g/L. Between-run precision and accuracy for Benz-U concentration determination were assessed using quality controls at 120 ng/L and 1000 ng/L and were 10.3% and 4.8%, and 104.8% and 98.9%, respectively; while the precision and accuracy for SPMA concentration determination at 0.3 g/L, 2.5 g/L, and 20 g/L were 40.3%, 6.2%, and 6.2%, and 48.3%, 96.3%, and 98.8%, respectively. Precision, estimated using duplicates of unknown samples, was 13.4% for Benz-U and 26.5% for SPMA analyses. Control charts for the means of the slope of the linear calibration curve of Benz-U showed good stability of the means over a five-year period. For SPMA, a two-laboratory comparison revealed acceptable agreement between ln-transformed data pairs, with a slope of the linear regression of 0.863 (confidence interval 0.774-0.952), null intercept, and a Pearson's r value of 0.844. Reliable results were obtained for Benz-U analyses over the entire concentration range, and for high and medium SPMA levels. However, the determination of SPMA concentrations at levels close to the limit of quantification was less reliable.
23756919	Hepatic activation of irinotecan predicts tumour response in patients with colorectal liver metastases treated with DEBIRI: exploratory findings from a phase II study.	The response of colorectal liver metastases to the cytotoxic agent irinotecan varies widely. Attempts to correlate tumour metabolism with response have been mixed. This study investigated the hepatic metabolism of irinotecan as a potential predictor of tumour response to irinotecan-eluting beads (DEBIRI). Ten patients with colorectal liver metastases were treated with 200mg irinotecan (as DEBIRI) as part of the PARAGON II study. Hepatic expression of key metabolising enzymes was measured using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Serum drug concentrations and hepatic irinotecan metabolism were characterised and correlated with tumour response. Serum concentrations of irinotecan metabolites did not correlate with hepatic metabolism or pathological response. There was a strong correlation between hepatic CES-2 expression and activation of irinotecan (r (2)=0.96, p<0.001). Patients with a UGT1A1*28 6/7 SNP showed no difference in drug metabolism or pathological response. Hepatic CES-2 mediated activation of irinotecan clearly correlated with tumour replacement by fibrosis (r (2)=0.54, p=0.01). This study provides the first evidence that hepatic activation of irinotecan predicts tumour response. Delivery of liver-targeted irinotecan to normal liver tissue rather than tumour may be a more rational approach to maximise response.
16400710	Species differences in enantioselective 2-oxidations of RS-8359, a selective and reversible MAO-A inhibitor, and cinchona alkaloids by aldehyde oxidase.	The 2-oxidation activity on the pyrimidine ring of RS-8359, a MAO-A inhibitor, is the major metabolic pathway catalysed by aldehyde oxidase. This study investigated the species differences in the 2-oxidation activity by using liver cytosolic fractions from rats, mice, guinea-pigs, rabbits, dogs, monkeys and humans. The Vmax/Km value for the (S)-enantiomer of RS-8359 was extremely high in monkeys and humans, moderate in guinea-pigs, and low in rats and mice. Dogs were deficient in 2-oxidation activity. The (R)-enantiomer was only oxidized at a very low rate in guinea-pigs, monkeys and humans, and not oxidized in rats, mice and rabbits. Thus, marked species differences and enantioselectivity were obvious for the 2-oxidation of the (S)-enantiomer of RS-8359. The in vitro results were in good accordance with previously reported in vivo excretion data of the 2-keto metabolite and the non-detectable plasma concentrations of the (S)-enantiomer in monkeys and humans after administration of racemic RS-8359. Enantioselectivity was also observed for the oxidation of cinchona alkaloids catalysed by aldehyde oxidase. Among the four cinchona alkaloids studied, the oxidation activity of cinchonidine, which has no substituents at the 6-hydroxy group but bears (8S,9R)-configurations, was highest. As opposed to the (S)-enantiomer, an extremely high catalytic activity of cinchonidine was confirmed in rabbits, but not in monkeys or humans. Rabbit liver aldehyde oxidase was suggested to have characteristic properties around the active site.
23030741	Identification of the metabolites of lesogaberan using linear trap quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometry and hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography.	1. In this study, hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC), radiochemical activity monitoring and linear trap quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometry (MS) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) were used to identify the metabolites of a highly polar novel -aminobutyric acid type-B receptor agonist, lesogaberan, in rats. 2. Urine was collected from three male Wistar rats for 24 h after dosing with (14)C-labelled lesogaberan (170 mg/kg, 10 MBq/kg); plasma samples were taken 2 and 24 h after dosing. Pooled samples were separated by HILIC and eluents were analysed by radiochemical activity monitoring, MS and MS/MS. 3. Only the parent compound was detected in plasma, but six metabolites (M1-M6) were detected in urine. Analysis of MS and MS/MS data and comparison with synthetic reference standards enabled the identification of the structure of each metabolite. M1 was identified as the N-acetylated species [(2R)-3-acetamido-2-fluoropropyl]-phosphinic acid, and M6 as [(2R)-3-amino-2-fluoropropyl]-phosphonic acid. Metabolites M2 and M5 were the alcohol and carboxylic acid species 3-hydroxypropyl-phosphinic acid and 3-hydroxyphosphonoyl-propanoic acid, respectively, both of which had lost the fluorine atom present in the parent compound. M3 was the corresponding carboxylic acid species retaining the fluorine atom, (2R)-2-fluoro-3-hydroxyphosphonoyl-propanoic acid. Finally M4 was identified as [(2R)-2-fluoro-3-guanidino-propyl]-phosphinic acid.
18506735	Characterization of a new norfloxacin metabolite monitored during a bioequivalence study by means of mass spectrometry and quantum computation.	A bioequivalence study of two formulations containing norfloxacin was used for identification and assay of the metabolite of norfloxacin in human serum samples. The bioequivalence study was based on an analytical method using liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The plasmatic profile of metabolite was similar to norfloxacin for both formulations. Three plasma fractions of norfloxacin metabolite from a volunteer were isolated by liquid chromatography and investigated by atmospheric-pressure chemical ionization mass-spectrometry. The structure of norfloxacin metabolite (7-aminoethylenamino-6-fluoro-4-hydroxy quinoline-3-carboxylic acid) was identified taking into account also the mass spectrometry investigations achieved for norfloxacin and ciprofloxacin (used as internal standard for the analytical method). A theoretical procedure based on quantum chemical calculations has been also used to explain the mass fragmentation in molecules of norfloxacin metabolite that differ from the molecule of norfloxacin.
9173680	Ethnic-related differences in coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities catalyzed by cytochrome P4502A6 in liver microsomes of Japanese and Caucasian populations.	1. Interethnic differences in cytochrome P4502A6 (CYP2A6) levels and coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities were determined in liver microsomes of 30 Japanese and 30 Caucasians. 2. Although CYP2A6 levels and coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities varied very significantly in the 60 human samples examined, both CYP2A6 levels and coumarin 7hydroxylation activities were found to be higher in Caucasian than Japanese population. 3. Interestingly, eight of the 30 Japanese examined showed very low or undetectable levels of coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities as well as of CYP2A6 in liver microsomes. All of the Caucasians, however, had significant CYP2A6 levels and variable 7-hydroxylation activities. 4. Kinetic analvsis of coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities in liver microsomes of various human samples suggested that although there were 260-fold differences in Vmax's in 10 human samples examined, the Km's were very similar (2.1 + or - 107 mu M); a value consistent with that obtained (1.2 mu M) with purified CYP2A6 in reconstituted system. 5. The results suggest that CYP2A6 is actually involved in the 7-hydroxylation of coumarin in human liver microsomes, and that interethnic differences in coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities in Japanese and Caucasian population may be ascribed to the differences in expression of CYP2A6 protein.
16584928	Modified high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection method for plasma measurement of levodopa, 3-O-methyldopa, dopamine, carbidopa and 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid.	Plasma measurements of levodopa and its major metabolites including dopamine and 3-O-methyldopa have been limited by cumbersome methods and poor sensitivity within relatively narrow ranges of plasma levels. We now report a modification of an HPLC method that permits concomitant measurements of a wide range of concentrations of levodopa, dopamine (DA), carbidopa, 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) from one HPLC injection. The recoveries ranged from 77 to 107% with an intra-day precision around 5% (CV) and inter-day CV's about 10-20%. This validated method will simplify pharmacokinetic studies of levodopa and its metabolites for mechanistic studies or therapeutic clinical monitoring which play a crucial role in development of strategies to prolong motor benefits from individual doses and reduce involuntary movements called dykinesias.
22472641	Simultaneous determination of flumatinib and its two major metabolites in plasma of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Flumatinib is an antineoplastic tyrosine kinase inhibitor used for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Its major metabolites in the circulation are N-desmethyl flumatinib (M1) and amide hydrolysis product (M3). To investigate the pharmacokinetics of flumatinib in CML patients, a simple, specific and rapid liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of flumatinib and its two major metabolites in patient plasma. After a simple, one-step protein precipitation with methanol, flumatinib, its two metabolites, and internal standard (HHGV-E) were separated on a C(18) column using an isocratic mobile phase of methanol:5mM ammonium acetate:formic acid (60:40:0.4, v/v/v). A total chromatographic run time of 4.2 min was achieved. The detection was performed in multiple reaction monitoring mode, using the transitions of m/z 563m/z 463 for flumatinib, m/z 549m/z 463 for M1, m/z 303m/z 175 for M3, and m/z 529m/z 429 for HHGV-E. The method was linear over the concentration ranges of 0.400-400 ng/mL for flumatinib, 0.100-100 ng/mL for M1, and 0.200-200 ng/mL for M3, using only 50 L of plasma. The intra- and inter-day precisions were less than 8.5% for flumatinib, 9.8% for M1, and 10.6% for M3 in terms of the relative standard deviation. The accuracy was within  2.2% for flumatinib,  6.0% for M1, and  9.9% for M3 in terms of relative error. The validated method was successfully applied to clinical pharmacokinetic studies of flumatinib mesylate in CML patients following oral administration at all dosage regimens.
7741772	Hydroxylation of the antimalarial drug 58C80 by CYP2C9 in human liver microsomes: comparison with mephenytoin and tolbutamide hydroxylations.	58C80 [2-(4-t-butylcyclohexyl)-3-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone] is an experimental naphthoquinone antimalarial drug which undergoes extensive alkyl hydroxylation to a single t-butylhydroxy metabolite in man in vivo and also in human liver microsomes, where this is catalysed primarily by a 54 kDa CYP2C9 form of cytochrome P450, P450hB20-27. Microsomal 58C80 hydroxylation (58OH) activity showed a marked inter-individual variation in a bank of 39 individual human livers but did not correlate with the immunoquantified levels of either of two microsomal proteins (54 and 50 kDa, respectively) recognised by a polyclonal antibody against CYP2C9 (P450hB20-27). Neither 58OH activity nor the concentrations of the CYP2C9-immunorelated proteins showed any relationship with the individuals' age, sex, cigarette smoking habit, alcohol consumption or clinical drug treatment, including long term antiepileptic therapy with phenobarbitone or phenytoin. 58OH activity did not correlate with either TBOH (tolbutamide hydroxylation) or MPOH (S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation) activities, while 58C80 inhibited both TBOH and MPOH in human liver microsomes non-competitively (Ki = 30 and 175 microM for TBOH and MPOH, respectively). 58C80 could be a useful model substrate for measuring human CYP2C activity in vitro.
17581220	Induction of cyp3a in primary cultures of human hepatocytes by ginkgolides a and B.	1. The present study was designed to determine the effects of ginkgolide A, ginkgolide B and quercetin on CYP3A protein expression and enzyme activity in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. 2. Hepatocytes were pretreated with ginkgolide A, ginkgolide B and quercetin (at 1, 3, 10 and 30 micromol/L) for 48 h and then exposed to testosterone (250 micromol/L) for 30 min. Rifampin (10 micromol/L) and phenobarbital (2 mmol/L) were used as positive controls. The CYP3A activity was measured by the amount of 6beta-hydroxytestosterone in the culture medium and CYP3A protein in hepatocyte lysate was semiquantified by immunoblotting. 3. Compared with the vehicle control, ginkgolides A and B, at 30 micromol/L, significantly induced CYP3A protein expression (2.1- and 2-fold, respectively; both P < 0.01) and markedly induced CYP3A-mediated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (2.5-fold each; P < 0.05 for ginkgolide A; P > 0.05 for ginkgolide B). Quercetin had no apparent induction. 4. Ginkgolide A and ginkgolide B can induce CYP3A protein expression and enzyme activity in primary cultures of human hepatocytes at higher doses.
1600301	Lidocaine for treatment of severe seizures in newborn infants. II. Blood concentrations of lidocaine and metabolites during intravenous infusion.	The blood concentrations of lidocaine and its main active metabolites, methylethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and glycinexylidide (GX), were measured in 24 newborn infants during anticonvulsive treatment with an iv infusion of lidocaine. After a bolus dose of 1.5-2.2 mg/kg and continuous infusion of lidocaine (4.7-6.3 mg/kg/h) there was accumulation of the drug and MEGX within 24 h. After termination of the iv infusion, both lidocaine and the metabolites were eliminated within 24-48 h. The anticonvulsive effectiveness--estimated by clinical observation and continuous amplitude integrated EEG monitoring (cerebral function monitor)--was immediate in 15 infants (nine term and six preterm). There was no correlation between blood concentrations of lidocaine and metabolites, and anticonvulsive effect (i.e. good, intermediate or no response). No differences in blood concentrations were found between full-term and preterm babies, or between infants with or without birth asphyxia. In combination with a fast withdrawal of the drug, few adverse reactions were seen with the dosages used, even though blood concentrations were high. Routine measurements of lidocaine concentrations during anticonvulsive treatment in neonates seem to be of little clinical value. For evaluation of the anticonvulsive effect and for early detection of seizure activity during lidocaine withdrawal, continuous EEG monitoring is preferable.
17664247	Glucuronidation of active tamoxifen metabolites by the human UDP glucuronosyltransferases.	Tamoxifen (TAM) is an antiestrogen that has been widely used in the treatment and prevention of breast cancer in women. One of the major mechanisms of metabolism and elimination of TAM and its major active metabolites 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OH-TAM) and 4-OH-N-desmethyl-TAM (endoxifen; 4-hydroxy-N-desmethyl-tamoxifen) is via glucuronidation. Although limited studies have been performed characterizing the glucuronidation of 4-OH-TAM, no studies have been performed on endoxifen. In the present study, characterization of the glucuronidating activities of human UDP glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) against isomers of 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen was performed. Using homogenates of individual UGT-overexpressing cell lines, UGTs 2B7 approximately 1A8 > UGT1A10 exhibited the highest overall O-glucuronidating activity against trans-4-OH-TAM as determined by Vmax/K(M), with the hepatic enzyme UGT2B7 exhibiting the highest binding affinity and lowest K(M) (3.7 microM). As determined by Vmax/K(M), UGT1A10 exhibited the highest overall O-glucuronidating activity against cis-4-OH-TAM, 10-fold higher than the next-most active UGTs 1A1 and 2B7, but with UGT1A7 exhibiting the lowest K(M). Although both N- and O-glucuronidation occurred for 4-OH-TAM in human liver microsomes, only O-glucuronidating activity was observed for endoxifen; no endoxifen-N-glucuronidation was observed for any UGT tested. UGTs 1A10 approximately 1A8 > UGT2B7 exhibited the highest overall glucuronidating activities as determined by Vmax/K(M) for trans-endoxifen, with the extrahepatic enzyme UGT1A10 exhibiting the highest binding affinity and lowest K(M) (39.9 microM). Similar to that observed for cis-4-OH-TAM, UGT1A10 also exhibited the highest activity for cis-endoxifen. These data suggest that several UGTs, including UGTs 1A10, 2B7, and 1A8 play an important role in the metabolism of 4-OH-TAM and endoxifen.
21679150	In vitro metabolism of phenstatin: potential pharmacological consequences.	Phenstatin and its derivatives are potential anticancer drug candidates according to their inhibitory properties on tubulin polymerization, cell growth and antivascular activity. However, at the present time, neither pharmacological nor metabolic studies have been conducted in order to strengthen the relevance of phenstatine as a drug discovery candidate. In the present work, the metabolic fate of phenstatin in rat and human microsomal preparations was studied to investigate the stability of this tubulin polymerization inhibitor and any effects of the metabolites on polymerization and on PC3 cancer cell proliferation. The metabolites were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and, after their synthesis, characterized by simultaneous LC-DAD-UV and LC-ESI-MS analyses. Thus, eight metabolites were identified. The major biotransformation pathways are carbonyl reduction, O-methylation at C-3', O-methylation after aromatic hydroxylation at the position C-2' on phenyl B ring and O-demethylation on A ring. Four of the identified metabolites were as active or more active, than phenstatin in vitro. Moreover, the better stability of phenstatin versus CA-4 and the lack of quinone formation could justify the design of new analogues which could include various substituents on phenyl rings or linker group in order to modulate the metabolism of phenstatin toward even more active metabolites and so up-regulate the pharmacological activity.
12013227	Capillary electrophoresis and capillary electrophoresis-ion trap multiple-stage mass spectrometry for the differentiation and identification of oxycodone and its major metabolites in human urine.	Oxycodone (OCOD) and its metabolites, including oxymorphone (OMOR), noroxycodone (NOCOD) and noroxymorphone (NOMOR), are opioids that carry an OH group at position 14. Using capillary electrophoresis (CE) with a binary phosphate buffer containing 60% ethylene glycol (pH 7.9), the migration order of OCOD and OMOR with respect to their N-demethylated analogs was found to be reversed compared to that observed for codeine, dihydrocodeine, morphine and dihydromorphine, compounds that do not have an OH group at position 14. OCOD and structurally related compounds can also be distinguished from these opioids by their absorbance spectra at low wavelengths and via a characteristic neutral H2O loss at the MS2 level. Using the binary phosphate buffer, CE with UV detection is shown to be capable of monitoring OCOD, NOCOD, OMOR (after hydrolysis only) and NOMOR (after hydrolysis and in patient urine only) in alkaline liquid-liquid extracts of urines that were collected after ingestion of 10 mg OCOD hydrochloride and in a patient urine collected at steady state (80 mg OCOD hydrochloride daily). Using an aqueous pH 9 ammonium acetate buffer, these results were confirmed by CE-MS3. Based on CE-MS, MS2 and MS3 data, the absorbance spectra measured across the CE peaks and the relative position within the electropherogram, two peaks monitored in the UV absorbance electropherograms could be assigned to the two keto-reduced metabolites 6oxycodol (60COL) and nor6oxycodol, for which no standards were available. Comparison of data obtained with urines pretreated with two different enzyme products (beta-glucuronidase and beta-glucuronidase/arylsulfatase) suggest that OCOD, NOCOD and 6OCOL are mainly glucuronidated, whereas OMOR mainly forms other conjugates. Furthermore, in a first attempt to directly measure conjugates of the compounds of interest, solid-phase extracts were analyzed by CE-MS4, which revealed the presence of the acyl glucuronides of 6OCOL and OMOR and an unidentified OMOR conjugate. The quantitation of free OCOD and NOCOD by CE-MS using deuterated internal standards is also discussed briefly.
12712458	Combination therapy with irinotecan and protein kinase C inhibitors in malignant glioma.	The topoisomerase-I inhibitor irinotecan (CPT-11) is currently used in Phase I/II trials for the treatment of patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. Protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors such as high-dose tamoxifen and hypericin also have been used in the treatment of malignant gliomas. The current study examined the role of PKC inhibitors as chemosensitizers for CPT-11 and their proposed mechanism of action. Two glioma cell lines (A-172 and U-87) and one primary glioma cell culture (LA-567) were used. Proliferation ((3)H-thymidine) and cytotoxicity (methylthiotetrazole) studies were performed using CPT-11 (0-100 microM) alone, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxy camptothecin (SN-38) (0-1000 nM) alone or in the presence of a PKC inhibitor, tamoxifen (10 microM), hypericin (10 microM), calphositin C (400 nM), or staurosporine (10 nM). The terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling(TUNEL) assay was used to determine apoptosis as the mechanism of cytotoxicity; alterations in bcl-2 and bax expression were determined using Western blot analysis. Conversion of CPT-11 to SN-38 by glioma cells was determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. Increasing CPT-11 and SN-38 concentrations induced cytotoxic morphologic changes, decreased proliferation, and increased cytotoxicity on all glioma cell lines tested. These changes were increased in the presence of a PKC inhibitor. The mechanism of the cytotoxicity was determined to be apoptosis by the TUNEL assay. The combination of a PKC inhibitor with CPT-11 or SN-38 led to decreased expression of the antiapoptotic protein bcl-2, and increased expression of the proapoptotic protein bax. HPLC analysis demonstrated conversion of CPT-11 to SN-38 by glioma cells. A combination of CPT-11 or SN-38 with a PKC inhibitor was found to lead to a decrease in proliferation and an increase in apoptosis in malignant glioma cells. The induction of apoptosis was secondary to a decrease in bcl-2 and an increase in bax expression. Glioma cells are capable of converting CPT-11 to SN-38 by intrinsic tumor carboxylesterases.
22472986	Effects of ritonavir-boosted lopinavir on the pharmacokinetics of quinine.	The centuries-old antimalarial drug, quinine, continues to play a critical role in the treatment of severe falciparum malaria and uncomplicated malaria in pregnant women. It shares cytochrome P450 (CYP )-mediated metabolic pathways with several commonly used antiretroviral drugs, raising the potential for clinically important drugdrug interactions. A phase I pharmacokinetic study was conducted to assess the impact of long-term use of ritonavir-boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) on quinine pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. LP V/r significantly decreased the exposure of quinine and its major active metabolite, 3-hydroxyquinine, in both total and free (unbound) forms. These findings highlight the complex nature of the influence exerted by LPV/r on several of the drug-metabolizing enzymes involved in quinine disposition,including CYP 3A4, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UG T), and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). A decline in quinine exposure may compromise clinical efficacy. Further studies are warranted to assess changes in quinine pharmacokinetics and treatment outcomes in patients with acute malaria receiving antiretroviral therapy that includes LPV/r.
14570772	Human cytochrome p450 inhibition and metabolic-intermediate complex formation by goldenseal extract and its methylenedioxyphenyl components.	The concurrent use of herbal medicinals with prescription and over-the-counter drugs carries a risk for unanticipated adverse drug-botanical pharmacokinetic interactions, particularly as a result of cytochrome P450 (P450) inhibition. Extracts of goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) containing approximately equal concentrations ( approximately 17 mM) of two methylenedioxyphenyl alkaloids, berberine and hydrastine, inhibited with increasing potency (CYP2C9) diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation, (CYP2D6) bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation, and (CYP3A4) testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation activities in human hepatic microsomes. The inhibition of testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation activity was noncompetitive with an apparent Ki of 0.11% extract. Of the methylenedioxyphenyl alkaloids, berberine (IC50 = 45 microM) was the more inhibitory toward bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation and hydrastine (IC50 approximately 350 microM for both isomers), toward diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation. For testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, berberine was the least inhibitory component (IC50 approximately 400 microM). Hydrastine inhibited testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation with IC50 values for the (+)- and (-)-isomers of 25 and 30 microM, respectively. For (-)-hydrastine, an apparent Ki value of 18 microM without preincubation and an NADPH-dependent mechanism-based inhibition with a kinactivation of 0.23 min(-1) and a KI of approximately 110 microM were determined. Cytochrome P450 metabolic-intermediate (MI) complex formation could be demonstrated for both hydrastine isomers. With expressed P450 isoforms, hydrastine formed a P450 MI complex with CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. Coexpression of cytochrome b5 with the P450 isoforms enhanced the rate but not the extent of P450 MI complex formation.
16289653	Comparison of exposure assessment methods in occupational exposure to benzene in gasoline filling-station attendants.	The aim of this study was to assess gasoline filling-station attendants' exposure to benzene and to determine which biological exposure index (BEI), trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) or S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA), shows better correlation with environmental exposure. Exposure to benzene was measured using passive samplers (Radiello) attached to the collar of the overalls of subjects (n=33) just before the work-shift (approximately 8h); analysis was performed by GC-FID. S-PMA and t,t-MA were determined, respectively, by an immunochemiluminescent assay based on specific monoclonal antibodies and by HPLC-UV at 264 nm. Both methods of biological monitoring were performed on beginning and end-shift urine samples, and expected t,t-MA and S-PMA values were calculated. Smoking habits and life-style were ascertained by means of a questionnaire. Both environmental and biological monitoring data showed that benzene exposure for gasoline filling-station attendants was low when compared with the respective ACGIH limit values (means-benzene: 0.044 mg/m(3); t,t-MA: 171 microg/g creatinine; S-PMA: 2.7 microg/g creatinine). No significant correlation was found between exposure to benzene and t,t-MA or S-PMA excretion data. The use of expected values was also experimented for S-PMA and t,t-MA. This consists of calculating, on the basis of the known half-life of the benzene metabolite, the concentration of that metabolite that a worker should present at the end of the work-shift, the difference between this value and the value actually found is a measure of benzene exposure during work. The use of expected values in biological monitoring did not improve correlations. At these low benzene levels, environmental monitoring seems to be the best method of evaluating individual exposure. However, biological monitoring remains useful, as a mean of assessing group exposure.
12846597	Ximelagatran, an oral direct thrombin inhibitor, has a low potential for cytochrome P450-mediated drug-drug interactions.	Ximelagatran is an oral direct thrombin inhibitor currently in clinical development for the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disorders. After oral administration, ximelagatran is rapidly absorbed and extensively bioconverted, via two intermediates (ethyl-melagatran and hydroxy-melagatran), to its active form, melagatran. In vitro studies have shown no evidence for involvement of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in either the bioactivation or the elimination of melagatran. To investigate the potential of ximelagatran, the intermediates ethyl-melagatran and hydroxy-melagatran, and melagatran to inhibit the CYP system in vitro and in vivo, and the influence of three CYP substrates on the pharmacokinetics of melagatran in vivo. The CYP inhibitory properties of ximelagatran, the intermediates and melagatran were tested in vitro by two different methods, using heterologously expressed enzymes or human liver microsomes. Diclofenac (CYP2C9), diazepam (CYP2C19) and nifedipine (CYP3A4) were chosen for coadministration with ximelagatran in healthy volunteers. Subjects received oral ximelagatran 24mg and/or diclofenac 50mg, a 10-minute intravenous infusion of diazepam 0.1 mg/kg, or nifedipine 60mg. The plasma pharmacokinetics of melagatran, diclofenac, diazepam, N-desmethyl-diazepam and nifedipine were determined when administered alone and in combination with ximelagatran. No inhibition, or only minor inhibition, of CYP enzymes by ximelagatran, the intermediates or melagatran was shown in the in vitro studies, suggesting that ximelagatran would not cause CYP-mediated drug-drug interactions in vivo. This result was confirmed in the clinical studies. There were no statistically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of diclofenac, diazepam and nifedipine on coadministration with ximelagatran. Moreover, there were no statistically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of melagatran when ximelagatran was administered alone or in combination with diclofenac, diazepam or nifedipine. As ximelagatran did not exert a significant effect on the hepatic CYP isoenzymes responsible for the metabolism of diclofenac, diazepam and nifedipine, it is reasonable to expect that it would have no effect on the metabolism of other drugs metabolised by these isoenzymes. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetics of melagatran after oral administration of ximelagatran are not expected to be altered by inhibition or induction of CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or CYP3A4. Together, the in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that metabolic drug-drug interactions involving the major human CYP enzymes should not be expected with ximelagatran.
16192764	AQUAVAN injection, a water-soluble prodrug of propofol, as a bolus injection: a phase I dose-escalation comparison with DIPRIVAN (part 1): pharmacokinetics.	AQUAVAN Injection (AQ) (GPI 15715; Guilford Pharmaceutical Inc., Baltimore, MD) is a water-soluble prodrug of propofol (PropofolGPI). This study aimed to explore the pharmacokinetics of AQ, PropofolGPI, and formate (a metabolite of AQ) and to compare them with the pharmacokinetics of propofol lipid emulsion (PropofolD). After ethics committee approval, 36 healthy volunteers were randomly allocated into six cohorts (male/female: 3/3) and given a single bolus of AQ (5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 mg/kg). For comparison, an equipotent dose (as measured by the Bispectral Index) of PropofolD was given to the same subjects 1 week later. For both drugs, blood samples were collected (1-480 min) to analyze AQ, PropofolGPI, PropofolD, and formate concentrations. Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic analyses were performed for all analytes. A population compartmental model was developed for AQ and PropofolGPI using NONMEM. The models were evaluated using simulations and bootstraps. The noncompartmental pharmacokinetic comparison revealed different dispositions of PropofolGPI and PropofolD. The maximum plasma concentration was lower for PropofolGPI than for PropofolD at equipotent doses, and apparent clearance and distribution volume were much higher for PropofolGPI than for PropofolD. Formate concentrations were similar when injecting both drugs and were not higher than baseline. Compartmental modeling revealed that the pharmacokinetic behavior of AQ and its liberated PropofolGPI was best described by a nonlinear, six-compartment model, composed of two three-compartment models connected to each other by hydrolysis of AQ to PropofolGPI. PropofolGPI showed different noncompartmental pharmacokinetics from PropofolD, hereby revealing the influence of the formulation. The combined model for AQ and PropofolGPI was best modeled by a nonlinear, six-compartment model.
15567301	Conversion of cyclosporine A prodrugs in human tears vs rabbits tears.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the rate and mechanism of conversion of two water-soluble prodrugs of cyclosporine A (CsA) intended for topical delivery to the eye. The new molecules were designed according to the double prodrug concept: a solubilizing moiety was grafted onto CsA via an ester function, which could be hydrolysed via a two-step process (enzymatic and chemical). Prodrug solutions were prepared extemporaneously in an isotonic and neutral aqueous medium compatible with ophthalmic use. The rates of conversion into the parent molecule were determined by incubating the prodrugs in fresh rabbit or human tears or in a phosphate buffer solution (PBS) at pH 7.4. Both prodrugs were converted into CsA within the first minute in the presence of rabbit tears with rate constants of k=5.9x10(-3)min(-1) and k=3.8x10(-3)min(-1), respectively, for UNIL088 and UNIL089, whereas chemical conversion in PBS was negligible (k=0.5x10(-3)min(-1) for both molecules). Incubation of UNIL088 in human tears showed a significantly high conversion rate. It is concluded that the developed double prodrugs underwent a bioconversion in physiological media and thus represent promising candidates for topical delivery of CsA to the eye.
19765547	Modulation of human UMP/CMP kinase affects activation and cellular sensitivity of deoxycytidine analogs.	Deoxycytidine analogs are an important class of clinically active antiviral and anticancer agents. The stepwise phosphorylation of these analogs to triphosphate metabolites is crucial for biological action. Human UMP/CMP kinase (UMP/CMPK; cytidylate kinase; EC 2.7.4.14) is thought to be responsible for phosphorylation of UMP, CMP, and dCMP and may also play an important role in the activation of pyrimidine analogs. However, no evidence has verified this notion in intact cells. In this study we explored the functional roles of UMP/CMPK in natural pyrimidine synthesis and metabolism of deoxycytidine analogs, as well as 5-FU in HeLa S3 and HCT8 cells. The amounts of UMP/CMPK protein in different cell lines correlated with UMP, CMP, and dCMP kinase activities and amounts of UMP/CMPK RNA. Modulation of UMP/CMPK by overexpression or down-regulation had no impact on natural pyrimidine nucleotides and cell growth. However, down-regulating UMP/CMPK expression by siRNA led to a decrease in the formation of the triphosphate metabolites, resulting in cellular resistance to these analogs. More diphosphate and triphosphate metabolites of deoxycytidine analogs were detected and cellular sensitivity to these agents was increased in the UMP/CMPK-overexpressing cells. This study indicates that the second step enzyme (UMP/CMPK) is responsible for the phosphorylation of pyrimidine analogs and also has an impact on cellular sensitivity to these analogs in those cell lines.
17725883	Simultaneous determination of multiple drugs of abuse and relevant metabolites in urine by LC-MS-MS.	A method was developed for the quantitative analysis of 30 drugs of abuse and their metabolites in urine, including opiates, barbiturates, amphetamines, cocaine, cannabinoids, phencyclidine, methadone, and benzodiazepines. This method uses solid-phase extraction (SPE) on an Oasis HLB column followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Analytes were quantified by multiple reaction monitoring with the deuterated analogues as internal standards, using an atmospheric pressure ionization-electrospray interface. The method was validated by examining specificity, precision, accuracy, linearity, recovery, reproducibility, and detection limits. The limits of detection ranged from 9 pg/mL to 2.29 ng/mL in urine depending on the analyte. The SPE procedure was automated on a RapidTrace workstation to increase analytical throughput, and the results obtained via automated SPE were compared to those obtained by manual SPE to examine carryover effect, precision, accuracy, recovery, and reproducibility. To evaluate method performance, 108 urine samples were collected anonymously and tested for the presence of these drugs.
22004687	Effects of omeprazole and genetic polymorphism of CYP2C19 on the clopidogrel active metabolite.	Clopidogrel is an antiplatelet agent widely used in cardiovascular diseases and an inactive prodrug that needs to be converted to an active metabolite in two sequential metabolic steps. Several CYP450 isoforms involved in these two steps have been described, although the relative contribution in vivo of each enzyme is still under debate. CYP2C19 is considered to be the major contributor to active metabolite formation. In the current study, net CYP2C19 contribution to the active metabolite formation was determined from exposure of the active metabolite in two clinical studies (one phase I study with well balanced genetic polymorphic populations and a meta-analysis with a total of 396 healthy volunteers) at different clopidogrel doses. CYP2C19 involvements were estimated to be from 58 to 67% in intermediate metabolizers (IMs), from 58 to 72% in extensive metabolizers (EMs), and from 56 to 74% in ultrarapid metabolizers (UMs), depending on the study and the dose. For this purpose, a static model was proposed to estimate the net contribution of a given enzyme to the secondary metabolite formation. This static model was compared with a dynamic approach (Simcyp model) and showed good consistency. In parallel, in vitro investigations showed that omeprazole is a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP2C19 with K(I) of 8.56 M and K(inact) of 0.156 min(-1). These values were combined with the net CYP2C19 contribution to the active metabolite formation, through a static approach, to predict the inhibitory effect at 80-mg omeprazole doses in EM, IM, and UM CYP2C19 populations, with good consistency, compared with observed clinical values.
11477319	Removal of 10-hydroxycarbazepine by plasmapheresis.	Removal of the oxcarbazepine metabolite 10-hydroxycarbazepine (MHD) by plasmapheresis was evaluated during a series of six plasmaphereses of a 13-year-old boy with Rasmussen encephalitis. Plasmapheresis was performed after steady-state concentrations of MHD had been achieved with a dose of 2550 mg oxcarbazepine daily. The mean amount of MHD removed per plasmapheresis was 78.9 mg (SD: 6.0 mg), representing 3% to 4% of the daily oxcarbazepine dose and approximately 5% to 6% of body stores of MHD. The mean steady-state trough MHD concentration was 33.3 mg/L (SD: 1.8 mg/L), and this was remarkably stable during the entire plasmapheresis period. The serum concentration of MHD was only mildly reduced by the procedure. The areas under the concentration curve of MHD on the first and sixth day of plasmapheresis were 99% and 94%, respectively, of the pre-plasmapheresis values. The results are in agreement with studies on other anticonvulsant medications (carbamazepine, valproic acid, phenobarbital, and phenytoin), indicating that minor fractions (2% to 10%) of body stores of these drugs are depleted during plasmapheresis. The authors conclude that it is unnecessary to adjust the oxcarbazepine dosage when performing single-volume plasma exchanges or even multiple exchanges during an extended period. It is further proposed that plasmapheresis is unlikely to be of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of an oxcarbazepine overdose.
12054359	Comparison of urinary excretion characteristics of ethanol and ethyl glucuronide.	This study compared the urinary excretion characteristics of ethyl glucuronide (EtG) with that of ethanol, with focus on the effect of water-induced diuresis. Six healthy volunteers ingested an ethanol dose of 0.5 g/kg (range 25.0-41.5 g) as 5% (v/v) beer in 30 min and the same volume of water after 3 h. Urine collections were made before starting the experiment and at timed intervals over 31.5 h. The concentration of EtG was determined by an LC-MS method (LOQ = 0.1 mg/L). The urine samples collected immediately before starting drinking were all negative for ethanol and EtG, thus confirming that the participants had not recently ingested alcohol. Intake of beer resulted in a marked increase in excreted urine volume and a concomitant drop in creatinine concentration. The concentration of ethanol peaked at a mean value of 17 mmol/L in the 1.5-h urine collection. Except for one subject, EtG was first detectable (range 0.9-5.5 mg/L) at 1 h. Intake of water at 3 h produced another increase in urine volume and a drop in creatinine. The ethanol concentration curve was not influenced by the water diuresis, whereas this caused a distinct drop in the EtG concentration. When EtG was expressed relative to the creatinine value, this ratio was seemingly not affected by the intake of water. The ethanol concentration returned to zero at 6.5 h, whereas EtG was still detectable for up to 22.5-31.5 h, albeit at low levels in the end (< 1 mg/l). Only about 0.02% of the administered dose of ethanol (on a molar basis) was recovered in the urine as EtG. The results demonstrated that EtG remains detectable in the urine for many hours after the ethanol itself has been eliminated. Moreover, it was possible to lower the concentration of EtG by drinking large amounts of water prior to voiding, whereas this strategy did not influence the EtG/creatinine ratio or the concentration of ethanol.
16510541	Metabolism and disposition of a potent and selective GABA-Aalpha2/3 receptor agonist in healthy male volunteers.	[14C]7-(1,1-Dimethylethyl)-6-(2-ethyl-2H-1,2,4-triazol-3-ylmethoxy)-3-(2-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-b]pyridazine ([14C]-TPA023; 99 microCi/dose) was administered to five young, healthy, fasted male subjects as a single oral dose (3.0 mg) in solution (propylene glycol/water, 10:90 v/v). The parent compound was rapidly absorbed (plasma Tmax approximately 2 h), exhibited an apparent terminal half-life of 6.7 h, and accounted for approximately 53% of the total radioactivity in plasma. After 7 days of collection, the mean total recovery of radioactivity in the excreta was 82.6%, with 53.2% and 29.4% in urine and feces, respectively. Radiochromatographic analysis of the excreta revealed that TPA023 was metabolized extensively, and only trace amounts of unchanged parent were recovered. Radiochromatograms of urine and feces showed that TPA023 underwent metabolism via three pathways (t-butyl hydroxylation, N-deethylation, and direct N-glucuronidation). The products of t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation, together with their corresponding secondary metabolites, accounted for the majority of the radioactivity in the excreta. In addition, approximately 10.3% of the dose was recovered in urine as the triazolo-pyridazine N1-glucuronide of TPA023. The t-butyl hydroxy and N-desethyl metabolites of TPA023, the TPA023 N1-glucuronide, and the triazolo-pyridazine N1-glucuronide of N-desethyl TPA023 were present in plasma. In healthy male subjects, therefore, TPA023 is well absorbed and is metabolized extensively (t-butyl hydroxylation and N-deethylation > glucuronidation), and the metabolites are excreted in urine and feces.
17446261	Predominant contribution of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 in the glucuronidation of racemic flurbiprofen in the human liver.	Flurbiprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug used as a racemic mixture. Although glucuronidation is one of its elimination pathways, the role of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) in this process remains to be investigated. Thus, the kinetics of the stereoselective glucuronidation of racemic (R,S)-flurbiprofen by recombinant UGT isozymes and human liver microsomes (HLMs) were investigated, and the major human UGT isozymes involved were identified. UGT1A1, 1A3, 1A9, 2B4, and 2B7 showed glucuronidation activity for both (R)- and (S)-glucuronide, with UGT2B7 possessing the highest activity. UGT2B7 formed the (R)-glucuronide at a rate 2.8-fold higher than that for (S)-glucuronide, whereas the other UGTs had similar formation rates. The glucuronidation of racemic flurbiprofen by HLMs also resulted in the formation of (R)-glucuronide as the dominant form, which occurred to a degree similar to that by recombinant UGT2B7 (2.1 versus 2.8). The formation of (R)-glucuronide correlated significantly with morphine 3-OH glucuronidation (r = 0.96, p < 0.0001), morphine 6-OH glucuronidation (r = 0.91, p < 0.0001), and 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine glucuronidation (r = 0.85, p < 0.0001), a reaction catalyzed mainly by UGT2B7, in individual HLMs. In addition, the formation of both glucuronides correlated significantly (r = 0.99, p < 0.0001). Mefenamic acid inhibited the formation of both (R)- and (S)-glucuronide in HLMs with similar IC(50) values (2.0 and 1.7 muM, respectively), which are close to those in recombinant UGT2B7. In conclusion, these findings suggest that the formation of (R)- and (S)-glucuronide from racemic flurbiprofen is catalyzed by the same UGT isozyme, namely UGT2B7.
21901464	Chemometric evaluation of nine alcohol biomarkers in a large population of clinically-classified subjects: pre-eminence of ethyl glucuronide concentration in hair for confirmatory classification.	An important goal of forensic and clinical toxicology is to identify biological markers of ethanol consumption that allow an objective diagnosis of chronic alcohol misuse. Blood and head hair samples were collected from 175 subjects-objectively classified as non-drinkers (N=65), social drinkers (N=51) and active heavy drinkers (N=59)-and analyzed to determine eight traditional indirect biomarkers of ethanol consumption [aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyltransferase (-GT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), mean corpuscular volume (MCV), carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT), and cholesterol and triglycerides in blood] and one direct biomarker [ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in head hair]. The experimental values obtained from these determinations were submitted to statistical evaluations. In particular, Kruskal-Wallis, Mann-Whitney and ROC curve analyses, together with principal component analysis (PCA), allowed the diagnostic performances of the various biomarkers to be evaluated and compared consistently. From these evaluations, it was possible to deduce that EtG measured in head hair is the only biomarker that can conclusively discriminate active heavy drinkers from social and non-drinkers, using a cut-off value of 30 pg/mg. In contrast, a few indirect biomarkers such as ALP, cholesterol, and triglycerides showed extremely low diagnostic abilities and may convey misleading information. AST and ALT proved to be highly correlated and exhibited quite low sensitivity and specificity. Consequently, either of these parameters can be discarded without compromising the classification efficiency. Among the indirect biomarkers, -GT provided the highest diagnostic accuracy, while CDT and MCV yielded high specificity but low sensitivity. It was therefore concluded that EtG in head hair is the only biomarker capable of supporting a confirmatory diagnosis of chronic alcohol abuse in both forensic and clinical practice, while it was found that -GT, CDT, MCV, and AST--whether used alone or in combination--do not allow the conclusive classification of subjects according to ethanol consumption. However, a diagnostic strategy combining these four parameters could be formulated in order to create a multivariate model capable of screening suspected active heavy drinkers.
20032194	Species differences in the formation of vabicaserin carbamoyl glucuronide.	Vabicaserin is a potent 5-hydroxtryptamine 2C full agonist with therapeutic potential for a wide array of psychiatric disorders. Metabolite profiles indicated that vabicaserin was extensively metabolized via carbamoyl glucuronidation after oral administration in humans. In the present study, the differences in the extent of vabicaserin carbamoyl glucuronide (CG) formation in humans and in animals used for safety assessment were investigated. After oral dosing, the systemic exposure ratios of CG to vabicaserin were approximately 12 and up to 29 in monkeys and humans, respectively, and the ratios of CG to vabicaserin were approximately 1.5 and 1.7 in mice and dogs, respectively. These differences in systemic levels of CG are likely related to species differences in the rate and extent of CG formation and elimination. Whereas CG was the predominant circulating metabolite in humans and a major metabolite in mice, dogs, and monkeys, it was a relatively minor metabolite in rats, in which oxidative metabolism was the major metabolic pathway. Although the CG was not detected in plasma or urine of rats, approximately 5% of the dose was excreted in bile as CG in the 24-h collection postdose, indicating the rat had the metabolic capability of producing the CG. In vitro, in a CO(2)-enriched environment, the CG was the predominant metabolite in dog and human liver microsomes, a major metabolite in monkey and mice, and only a very minor metabolite in rats. Carbamoyl glucuronidation and hydroxylation had similar contributions to vabicaserin metabolism in mouse and monkey liver microsomes. However, only trace amounts of CG were formed in rat liver microsomes, and other metabolites were more prominent than the CG. In conclusion, significant differences in the extent of formation of the CG were observed among the various species examined. The exposure ratios of CG to vabicaserin were highest in humans, followed by monkeys, then mice and dogs, and lowest in rats, and the in vitro metabolite profiles generally correlated well with the in vivo metabolites.
23291146	Determination of glyphosate and AMPA in blood and urine from humans: about 13 cases of acute intoxication.	Acute intoxications after ingesting glyphosate are observed in suicidal or accidental cases. Despite low potential toxicity of this herbicide, a number of fatalities and severe outcomes are reported. Indeed, some authors have described the clinical features associated with blood and urine concentrations following intoxication. The purpose of this study is to describe the clinical feature and determinate the utility of the glyphosate concentration in blood and urine and the dose taken for predicting clinical outcomes. In 13 glyphosate poisoning cases treated in our laboratory within 7 years period from 2002 to 2009, we registered clinical observations and collected blood and urine samples to HPLC-MS-MS analysis. We classified our patients by the intoxication severity using simple clinical criteria. We obtained clinical observations from 10 patients and the others three patients were treated in forensic cases. Among the 10 patients, one was asymptomatic, 5 had mild to moderate poisoning and 2 had severe poisoning. There were 6 deaths whose 3 were forensic cases. The most common symptoms were oropharyngeal ulceration (5/10), nausea and vomiting (3/10). The main altered biological parameters were high lactate (3/10) and acidosis (7/10). We also noted respiratory distress (3/10), cardiac arrhythmia (4/10), hyperkaleamia, impaired renal function (2/10), hepatic toxicity (1/10) and altered consciousness (3/10). In fatalities, the common symptoms were cardiovascular shock, cardiorespiratory arrest, haemodynamic disturbance, intravascular disseminated coagulation and multiple organ failure. Blood glyphosate concentrations had a mean value of 61 mg/L (range 0.6-150 mg/L) and 4146 mg/L (range 690-7480 mg/L) respectively in mild-moderate intoxication and fatal cases. In the severe intoxication case for which blood has been sampled, the blood glyphosate concentration was found at 838 mg/L. Death was most of the time associated with larger taken dose (500 mL in one patient) and high blood glyphosate concentrations. To predict clinical outcomes and to guide treatment support in patients who ingested glyphosate, blood concentrations of this compound and the taken dose have been useful.
17433394	Cigarette smoke toxicants as substrates and inhibitors for human cytosolic SULTs.	The current study was designed to examine the role of sulfation in the metabolism of cigarette smoke toxicants and clarify whether these toxicants, by serving as substrates for the cytosolic sulfotransferases (SULTs), may interfere with the sulfation of key endogenous compounds. By metabolic labeling, [(35)S]sulfated species were found to be generated and released into the media of HepG2 human hepatoma cells and primary human lung endothelial cells labeled with [(35)S]sulfate in the presence of cigarette smoke extract (CSE). Concomitantly, several [(35)S]sulfated metabolites observed in the medium in the absence of CSE either decreased or disappeared. Eleven previously prepared human cytosolic SULTs were tested for sulfating activity with CSE and known cigarette smoke toxicants as substrates. Activity data revealed SULT1A1, SULT1A2, SULT1A3, and SULT1C#2 as major enzymes responsible for their sulfation. To examine their inhibitory effects on the sulfation of 17beta-estradiol by SULT1A1, enzymatic assays were performed in the presence of three representative toxicant compounds, namely N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-4-ABP), 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). IC(50) values determined for the sulfation of 17beta-estradiol by SULT1A1 were 11.8 microM, 28.2 microM, and 500 microM, respectively, for N-OH-4-ABP, 4-ABP and PhIP. Kinetic analyses indicated that the mechanism underlying the inhibition of 17beta-estradiol sulfation by these cigarette smoke toxicants is of a mixed competitive-noncompetitive type. Metabolic labeling experiments clearly showed inhibition of the production of [(35)S]sulfated 17beta-estradiol by N-OH-4-ABP in a concentration-dependent manner in HepG2 cells. Taken together, these results suggest that sulfation plays a significant role in the metabolism of cigarette smoke compounds. By serving as substrates for SULTs, cigarette smoke toxicants may interfere with the metabolism of 17beta-estradiol and other endogenous compounds.
11550816	Detection of non-prescription heroin markers in urine with liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry.	The planned introduction of a prescription heroin program in Germany created a need for differentiation between non-prescription and prescribed diamorphine use. The following substances were chosen as markers of non-prescription heroin: acetylcodeine (AC); its metabolites codeine (C) and codeine 6-glucuronide (C6G); papaverine (P); and noscapine (N). Typical heroin markers diamorphine (DAM) and its metabolites monoacetylmorphine (MAM) and morphine (M) were also determined. The drugs were extracted from urine samples with solid-phase extraction (C18) using standard 200-mg columns and 96-well microplates (100 mg). The extracts were examined with liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (positive ionization) in two isocratic systems. Selected ion monitoring procedures were applied for protonated molecular masses and characteristic fragments of drugs involved. The limits of detection were in the range of 0.5-1 ng/mL urine. The occurrence of selected heroin markers was investigated in 25 urine samples collected from heroin abusers (road traffic offenders and overdosed patients). C6G was found in all samples, C in 24 samples, N in 22 samples, MAM in 16 samples, P in 14 samples, DAM in 12 samples, and AC in 4 samples. The appearance of these compounds in urine reflects their pharmacokinetic properties and the composition of non-prescription heroin.
17170057	HPLC-tandem mass spectrometric method to characterize resveratrol metabolism in humans.	Nutritional biomarkers are alternatives to traditional dietary assessment tools. We sought to develop a method for nutritional analysis of resveratrol, a phenolic compound with purported health-promoting properties, and to determine all resveratrol metabolites. We obtained LDL and urine samples from 11 healthy male volunteers who had consumed 250 mL of Merlot red wine. We measured resveratrol and its metabolites with 96-well solid-phase extraction plates coupled with HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry. Hexestrol was used as the internal standard. Gradient chromatography in multiple reaction monitoring mode was performed on a Luna C(18) column, maintained at 40 degrees C; m/z transitions were as follows: resveratrol, 227/185; resveratrol glucosides, 389/227; resveratrol glucuronides, 403/227; resveratrol sulfates, 307/227; taxifolin, 303/285; and hexestrol, 269/134. Standard calibration curves were linear at 4.4-3289.5 nmol/L. Residual analyses were 100% (3.2) for trans-resveratrol and 100% (11.1) for trans-piceid. In both matrices, imprecision (CV) was <10.8% at all concentrations. Detection limits for resveratrol were 0.2 nmol/L (LDL), 0.3 nmol/L (synthetic urine), and 4.0 nmol/L (blank urine). Resveratrol and metabolites were checked for stability, and no degradation was observed. The HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry method enabled us to identify resveratrol sulfates in human LDL and to characterize the complete profile of resveratrol metabolism in human LDL and urine. This method provides an accurate index of exposure to resveratrol and its metabolites, which can be used as nutritional biomarkers for evaluating the biological effects of moderate wine intake on human health.
21622942	Characterization of novel ligands of ER, Er, and PPAR: the case of halogenated bisphenol A and their conjugated metabolites.	The capability of the flame retardants tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) and tetrachlorobisphenol A (TCBPA) to activate peroxysome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) , , and  and estrogen receptors (ERs)  and  has been recently investigated, but the activity of their biotransformation products and of their lower molecular weight analogues formed in the environment remains unexplored. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the degree of halogenation of BPA analogues and their affinity and activity towards human PPAR and ERs and to characterize active metabolites of major marketed halogenated bisphenols. The biological activity of all compounds was studied using reporter cell lines expressing these nuclear receptors (NRs). We used NR-based affinity columns to rapidly evaluate the binding affinity of halogenated bisphenols for PPAR and ERs and to trap active metabolites of TBBPA and TCBPA formed in HepG2 cells. The agonistic potential of BPA analogs highly depends on their halogenation degree: the bulkier halogenated BPA analogs, the greater their capability to activate PPAR. In addition, PPAR-based affinity column, HGELN-PPAR reporter cell line and crystallographic analysis clearly demonstrate that the sulfation pathway, usually considered as a detoxification process, leads for TBBPA and TCBPA, to the formation of sulfate conjugates which possess a residual PPAR-binding activity. Our results highlight the effectiveness NR-based affinity columns to trap and characterize biologically active compounds from complex matrices. Polyhalogenated bisphenols, but also some of their metabolites, are potential disrupters of PPAR activity.
15386754	In vitro and in vivo metabolism of pyronaridine characterized by low-energy collision-induced dissociation mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization.	The in vitro and in vivo metabolism of pyronaridine, an antimalarial agent, was investigated in rats and humans. In vitro incubation of pyronaridine with rat and human liver microsomes resulted in the formation of 11 metabolites, with pyronaridine quinoneimine (M3) as the major metabolite. The structures of pyronaridine metabolites were characterized on the basis of the product ion mass spectra obtained under low-energy collision-induced dissociation (CID) ion trap mass spectrometry. Both pyronaridine (m/z 518) and M3 (m/z 516) produced the same product ion (m/z 447). These results could be explained by the characteristic neutral loss of a 69 Da fragment from M3 via gamma-H rearrangement and 1,7 sigmatropic shift, whereas the neutral loss of a 71 Da fragment from the pyronaridine occurred by charge site-initiated heterolytic cleavage. These fragmentations were further supported by the tandem mass spectrum of D(3)-pyronaridine. Other metabolites generated in the microsomal incubations were carbonylated, hydroxylated and O-demethylated derivatives. Pyronaridine and its metabolites were detected in both feces and urine after intraperitoneal administration to rats. The in vivo metabolic profile in rats was different from the in vitro profile. M3, a chemically reactive quinonimine, was not detected whereas O-demethylated derivatives (M14, M15, M16, and M19) were identified in fecal and urinary extracts. The role of quinoneimine metabolites in pyronaridine-caused toxicity should be further evaluated, although these metabolites or their conjugates were not detected in urine and feces.
22393120	Metabolic switching of BILR 355 in the presence of ritonavir. I. Identifying an unexpected disproportionate human metabolite.	11-Ethyl-5,11-dihydro-5-methyl-8-[2-[(1-oxido-4-quinolinyl)oxy] ethyl]-6H-dipyrido[3,2-b:2',3'-e][1,4]diazepin-6-one (BILR 355) is an inhibitor of the human immunodeficiency virus-1. BILR 355 exhibited a nonlinear pharmacokinetic profile and low exposure after oral administration to humans. This article describes the in vitro metabolism of BILR 355, which is correlated with the in vivo nonlinearity findings. Our in vitro studies had demonstrated that BILR 355 was extensively metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A. Thus, BILR 355 was concomitantly administered with ritonavir (RTV) in an attempt to boost systemic exposure, which did occur in humans. In addition, the expectation was that the overall metabolism of BILR 355 would be decreased with concomitant administration of RTV. Subsequent metabolite profiling was performed using human plasma samples obtained from clinical phase Ib studies with concomitant administration of BILR 355 and RTV. A total of 18 metabolites was observed. Their structures were proposed on the basis of high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry technologies, and 10 metabolites were confirmed by comparison with synthetic standards. We were surprised to find that a disproportionate human metabolite, BILR 516, was uncovered during this metabolite profiling study and pharmacokinetic analysis of BILR 516 showed that it had a longer half-life and higher exposure than the parent compound at steady state. Of interest, BILR 516 was not detected in human plasma when BILR 355 was administered alone. Therefore, whereas RTV boosted the exposure of BILR 355, it resulted in a significant metabolic switching of BILR 355. Overall, this article demonstrates an unusual example of metabolic switching and raises concern about the consequence of metabolic switching during drug development.
23338754	In vivo and in vitro metabolism of a novel 2-adrenoceptor agonist, trantinterol: metabolites isolation and identification by LC-MS/MS and NMR.	Trantinterol is a novel (2)-adrenoceptor agonist used for the treatment of asthma. The aim of this study is to identify the metabolites of trantinterol using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), to isolate the main metabolites, and confirm their structures by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Urine, feces, bile, and blood samples of rats were obtained and analyzed. Reference standards of six metabolites were achieved with the combination of chemical synthesis, microbial transformation, and the model systems of rats. Moreover, in order to investigate the phase I metabolism of trantinterol in humans and to study the species differences between rats and humans, incubations with liver microsomes were performed. The biotransformation by a microbial model Cunninghamella blakesleana AS 3.970 was also studied. A total of 18 metabolites were identified in vivo and in vitro together, 13 of which were newly detected. Three phase I metabolites were detected in vivo and in vitro as well as in the microbial model, including the arylhydroxylamine (M1), the tert-butyl hydroxylated trantinterol (M2) and the 1-carbonyltrantinterol (M3). Another important pathway in rats is glutathione conjugation and further catabolism and oxidation to form consecutive derivatives (M4 through M10). Other metabolites include glucuronide, glucoside, and sulfate conjugates. The results of in vitro experiments indicate no species difference exists among rats, humans, and C. blakesleana AS 3.970 on the phase I metabolism of trantinterol. Our study provided the most comprehensive picture for trantinterol in vivo and in vitro metabolism to this day, and may predict its metabolism in humans.
20545351	Mechanisms of the different DNA adduct forming potentials of the urban air pollutants 2-nitrobenzanthrone and carcinogenic 3-nitrobenzanthrone.	2-Nitrobenzanthrone (2-NBA) has recently been detected in ambient air particulate matter. Its isomer 3-nitrobenzanthrone (3-NBA) is a potent mutagen and suspected human carcinogen identified in diesel exhaust. We compared the efficiencies of human enzymatic systems [hepatic microsomes and cytosols, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), xanthine oxidase, NADPH:cytochrome P450 reductase, N,O-acetyltransferases, and sulfotransferases] and human primary hepatocytes to activate 2-NBA and its isomer 3-NBA to species forming DNA adducts. In contrast to 3-NBA, 2-NBA was not metabolized at detectable levels by the tested human enzymatic systems and enzymes expressed in human hepatocytes, and no DNA adducts detectable by (32)P-postlabeling were generated by 2-NBA. Even NQO1, the most efficient human enzyme to bioactive 3-NBA, did not activate 2-NBA. Molecular docking of 2-NBA and 3-NBA to the active site of NQO1 showed similar binding affinities; however, the binding orientation of 2-NBA does not favor the reduction of the nitro group. This was in line with the inhibition of 3-NBA-DNA adduct formation by 2-NBA, indicating that 2-NBA can compete with 3-NBA for binding to NQO1, thereby decreasing the metabolic activation of 3-NBA. In addition, the predicted equilibrium conditions favor a 3 orders of magnitude higher dissociation of N-OH-3-ABA in comparison to N-OH-2-ABA. These findings explain the very different genotoxicity, mutagenicity, and DNA adduct forming potential of the two compounds. Collectively, our results suggest that 2-NBA possesses a relatively lower risk to humans than 3-NBA.
6430297	N-glucuronide formation of carcinogenic aromatic amines in rat and human liver microsomes.	(1) Sensitive fluorimetric assays were developed for the determination of microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activities towards 1- and 2-naphthylamine and 4-aminobiphenyl. (2) In rat liver microsomes, enzyme activity towards 1-naphthylamine was orders of magnitude higher than the activities towards 2-naphthylamine, 4-aminobiphenyl or aniline. The differences were less marked with human liver microsomes. (3) Glucuronidation of aniline and 4-aminobiphenyl was not appreciably altered in rat liver microsomes from 3-methylcholanthrene- or phenobarbital-treated rats. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activities towards 1- and 2-naphthylamine were selectively increased (about 2-fold) by 3-methylcholanthrene-treatment. However the increases were less marked than those observed with representative substrates of the 3-methylcholanthrene-inducible enzyme form. The results suggest that the arylamines investigated are predominantly conjugated by constitutive enzyme forms in rat liver. (4) Arylamine N-glucuronides were found to be susceptible to hydrolysis by E. coli beta-glucuronidase suggesting the release of carcinogenic arylamines in the gut and their enterohepatic circulation.
12754096	Evidence of covalent binding of the dietary flavonoid quercetin to DNA and protein in human intestinal and hepatic cells.	Quercetin-rich foods have the potential to prevent human disease. However, knowledge of its biological fate and mechanism of action is limited. This study extends previous observations of the oxidation of quercetin by peroxidases to quinone/quinone methide intermediates and, for the first time, demonstrates covalent binding of [14C]quercetin to macromolecules. This was first demonstrated using horseradish peroxidase and hydrogen peroxide with human liver microsomal protein to trap the intermediates. To extend this observation to the cellular level, human intestinal Caco-2 cells and hepatic Hep G2 cells were incubated for up to 2hr with [14C]quercetin, and cellular DNA and protein were isolated. The cellular uptake of [14C]quercetin was rapid, and the covalent binding of [14C]quercetin to DNA and protein was determined by liquid scintillation spectrometry after extensive purification. Both cell types demonstrated DNA binding with a maximum level of 5-15pmol/mg DNA. The level of covalent binding to protein was considerably higher in both cell types, 75-125pmol/mg protein. To determine potential specificity in the protein binding, Hep G2 cells were treated with [14C]quercetin, and the cell lysate was subjected to SDS-PAGE followed by staining and autoradiography. Several distinct radiolabeled protein bands did not correspond to the major Coomassie blue stained cellular proteins. We propose that this specific binding may mediate part of the antiproliferative and other cellular actions of quercetin.
15179405	UGT1A1 haplotypes associated with reduced glucuronidation and increased serum bilirubin in irinotecan-administered Japanese patients with cancer.	A comprehensive haplotype analysis of UGT1A1 in the Japanese population was conducted, and the effects of these haplotypes were investigated with respect to UGT1A1-related phenotypic parameters in patients with cancer who received irinotecan. The UGT1A1 gene, including the enhancer, the promoter, and all 5 exons and their flanking regions, was sequenced from 195 Japanese subjects. The gene was divided into 2 blocks, and the haplotypes of each block were assigned. The association of these haplotypes with area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) ratios (7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin glucuronide [SN-38G]/7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin [SN-38]) and pretreatment levels of serum total bilirubin was investigated in 85 cancer patients who received irinotecan. Four haplotype groups (*1, *60, *28, and *6) were assigned in block 1, and 2 haplotype groups (*IA and *IB) were in block 2. The majority of the *IB haplotypes in block 2 were linked to either the *1 or the *60 haplotype but not to *28 in block 1. Highly significant associations were obtained between the *28 haplotypes and both a reduced AUC ratio (P =.0014, Jonckheere-Terpstra [JT] test) and an increased total bilirubin level (P =.0007, JT test). Increased total bilirubin levels in the *60 (P =.0048, JT test) and *IB groups (P =.0224, JT test) were also observed. The reduction in the AUC ratio by the *6 group was moderate (P =.0372, JT test) but was remarkable in combination with *60 (*6/*60) or *28 (*6/*28) as compared with the *1 group (*1/*1) (P =.049 and P =.0071, respectively; nonparametric Dunnett test). This study identified several UGT1A1 haplotypes significantly associated with the reduced AUC ratio (*28 and *6) and with the increased total bilirubin level (*28, *60, and *IB) and suggested that the novel haplotype *IB might be functionally important. These findings will be useful for further pharmacogenetic studies on adverse reactions to irinotecan.
17085545	Neutral endopeptidase up-regulation in isolated human umbilical artery: involvement in desensitization of bradykinin-induced vasoconstrictor effects.	Previous reports show that bradykinin B(2) receptors mediate contractile responses induced by bradykinin (BK) in human umbilical artery (HUA). However, although it has been reported that BK-induced responses can desensitize in several inflammatory models, the effects of prolonged in vitro incubation on BK-induced vasoconstriction in HUA have not been studied. In isolated HUA rings, BK-induced responses after a 5-h in vitro incubation showed a marked desensitization compared with responses at 2 h. Inhibition of either angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) or neutral endopeptidase (NEP), both BK-inactivating enzymes, failed to modify responses to BK at 2 h. After 5 h, ACE inhibition produced only a slight potentiation of BK-induced responses. In contrast, BK-induced vasoconstriction at 5 h was markedly potentiated by NEP inhibition. Moreover, NEP activity, measured by hydrolysis of its synthetic substrate (Z-Ala-Ala-Leu-p-nitroanilide), showed a 2.4-fold increase in 5-h incubated versus 2-h incubated tissues, which was completely reversed by cycloheximide (CHX) treatment. Furthermore, CHX significantly potentiated BK-induced responses, suggesting that NEP-mediated kininase activity increase at 5 h depends on de novo protein synthesis. In addition, under NEP inhibition, CHX treatment failed to produce an additional potentiation of BK-induced vasoconstriction. Still, NEP up-regulation was confirmed by Western blot, showing a 2.1-fold increase in immunoreactive NEP in 5-h incubated versus 2-h incubated HUA. In summary, the present study provides strong pharmacological evidence that NEP is up-regulated and plays a key role in desensitization of BK-induced vasoconstriction after prolonged in vitro incubation in HUA. Our results provide new insights into the possible mechanisms involved in BK-induced response desensitization during sustained inflammatory conditions.
15833029	Detection and quantification of N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl adducts in human pancreas tissue using capillary liquid chromatography-microelectrospray mass spectrometry.	Cigarette smoking has been associated with various cancers including bladder and pancreas. 4-Aminobiphenyl has been isolated as a constituent of cigarette smoke and has been established as a carcinogen in various animal models and humans. In rodents and humans, 4-aminobiphenyl is N-hydroxylated and forms adducts to DNA, the predominant one being N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (dG-C8-ABP). In this study, we report a micro-electrospray mass spectrometric (muESI-MS) isotope dilution method for the detection and quantification of dG-C8-ABP in human pancreatic tissue. A reverse phase capillary column (320 microm ID) was connected to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer via a commercially available micro-ESI source. The system was operated in the selected reaction monitoring mode transmitting the [M + H]+ --> [M + H - 116]+ transitions for both the analyte and the isotopically labeled internal standard. Twelve human pancreas samples were analyzed, where six were current smokers (three male and three female) and six were considered nonsmokers (three female and three male). Of the samples analyzed, six showed dG-C8-ABP levels above the limit of quantification for the method, five were considered to have levels that were undetectable, and one was discarded due to inconsistent internal standard signal. The age of the human subjects ranged from 17 to 63, and, in samples where adduct was present, levels ranged anywhere from 1 to 60/10(8) nucleotides. Although no correlation between smoking preference, age, or gender was proven with this particular sample pool, this report demonstrates that capillary LC-muESI-MS can provide a sensitive and definitive method for DNA adduct analysis in human tissue.
11368329	Efficiency of absorption and metabolic conversion of quercetin and its glucosides in human intestinal cell line Caco-2.	The efficiency of intestinal absorption and metabolic conversion of quercetin aglycone and its glucosides, quercetin-4'-O-beta-D-glucoside (Q4'G), quercetin-3-O-beta-D-glucoside (Q3G), and quercetin-3,4'-di-O-beta-D-glucoside (Q3,4'G), was estimated by using Caco-2 cell monolayers as an intestinal epithelial cell model. Aglycone was significantly lost from the apical side, resulting in the appearance of free and conjugated forms of quercetin and those of isorhamnetin in the cellular extracts. In the basolateral solution, the conjugated form of quercetin was predominant and increased with the elapse of incubation. As compared with quercetin aglycone, none of the quercetin glucosides were absorbed efficiently from apical side. However, Q4'G yielded conjugated quercetin and isorhamnetin in basolateral solution at higher amounts than Q3G or Q3,4'G. Lipophilicity of Q4'G was found to be higher than that of Q3G or Q3,4'G. This suggests that lipophilicity contributes to the relatively efficient absorption of Q4'G. It is likely that the occurrence of hydrolysis enhances the efficiency of intestinal absorption and metabolic conversion of dietary quercetin glucosides.
17620220	In vitro metabolism of indiplon and an assessment of its drug interaction potential.	This study was designed to study the in vitro metabolism of indiplon, a novel hypnotic agent, and to assess its potential to cause drug interactions. In incubations with pooled human liver microsomes, indiplon was converted to two major, pharmacologically inactive metabolites, N-desmethyl-indiplon and N-desacetyl-indiplon. The N-deacetylation reaction did not require NADPH, and appeared to be catalyzed by organophosphate-sensitive microsomal carboxylesterases. The N-demethylation of indiplon was catalyzed by CYP3A4/5 based on the following observations: (1) the sample-to-sample variation in N-demethylation of indiplon ([S] = 100 microM) in a bank of human liver microsomes was strongly correlated with testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase (CYP3A4/5) activity (r(2) = 0.98), but not with any other CYP enzyme; (2) recombinant CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP3A5 and CYP3A7 had the ability to catalyze this reaction; (3) the N-demethylation of indiplon was inhibited by CYP3A4/5 inhibitors (ketoconazole and troleandomycin), but not by a CYP1A2 inhibitor (furafylline). In pooled human liver microsomes, indiplon exhibited a weak capacity to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5 and carboxylesterase (p-nitrophenylacetate hydrolysis) activities (IC50 >/= 20 microM). Clinical data available on indiplon support the conclusions of this paper that the in vitro metabolism of indiplon is catalyzed by multiple enzymes, and indiplon is a weak inhibitor of human CYP enzymes.
15205384	Fluorescence-based assays for screening nine cytochrome P450 (P450) activities in intact cells expressing individual human P450 enzymes.	In this study we describe a battery of fluorescence assays for rapid measurement in intact cells of the activity of nine cytochromes P450 (P450s) involved in drug metabolism. The assays are based on the direct incubation of monolayers of cells expressing individual P450 enzymes with a fluorogenic substrate followed by fluorimetric quantification of the product formed and released into incubation medium. For each individual P450 activity, different fluorescence probes were examined, and the one showing the best properties (highest metabolic rates, lowest background fluorescence) was selected: 3-cyano-7-ethoxycoumarin for CYP1A2 and CYP2C19, coumarin for CYP2A6, 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin for CYP2B6, dibenzylfluorescein for CYP2C8, 7-methoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin (MFC) for CYP2C9 and CYP2E1, 3-[2-(N,N-diethyl-N-methylammonium)ethyl]-7-methoxy-4-methylcoumarin for CYP2D6, and 7-benzyloxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin for CYP3A4. Fluorescence-based assays are highly sensitive and allow the simultaneous measurement of a large number of samples using plate readers, thus enhancing sample throughput. Major advantages over high-throughput assays in subcellular fractions are that, as living cells are used, manual handling and enzyme damage are minimized, the endoplasmic reticulum of the cells remains intact, exogenous cofactors or NADPH-regenerating systems are not required, and transport processes are maintained. These assays can be applied to preliminary screening of inhibitory effects of new drugs on individual P450 enzymes. After comparison of the results obtained using the fluorescent probes in intact P450-expressing cells and those obtained using the high-performance liquid chromatography-based selective assays in the same cells, in primary human hepatocytes or in human liver microsomes, a fairly good agreement was found.
9001949	Testing for natural and synthetic anabolic agents in human urine.	This paper describes a comprehensive method for the detection of natural and synthetic anabolic agents, including some veterinary preparations such as trenbolone, zeranol (a non-steroidal agent) and clenbuterol (a beta 2-agonist). For the natural steroids such as testosterone, the precise determination of urinary androgens during routine procedures allowed the description of statistical distribution of relevant parameters of the endogenous steroid profile amongst male athletes. The validity of the results is discussed, taking into account some factors that may cause the degradation of the specimen.
15268982	Comparative disposition of [14C]ertapenem, a novel carbapenem antibiotic, in rat, monkey and man.	1. The disposition and metabolism of ertapenem, a carbapenem antibiotic, was examined in rat, monkey and man. Sprague-Dawley rats and Rhesus monkeys were given, by intravenous administration, radiolabelled doses of ertapenem (60 and 30 mg kg(-1), respectively), and healthy normal volunteers received a single fixed dose of 1000 mg. Urine and faeces were collected for determination of total radioactivity. 2. In healthy volunteers, [14C]ertapenem was eliminated by a combination of hydrolytic metabolism to a beta-lactam ring-opened derivative and renal excretion of unchanged drug. Approximately equal amounts were excreted as a beta-lactam ring-opened metabolite and unchanged drug (36.7 and 37.5% of dose, respectively). A secondary amide hydrolysis product accounted for about 1% of the dose in man. About 10% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in faeces, which suggested that a minor fraction underwent biliary and/or intestinal excretion. 3. In animals, a greater fraction of the dose was eliminated via metabolism; excretion of unchanged drug accounted for 17 and 5% of dose in rats and monkeys, respectively. In monkeys, the beta-lactam ring-opened and amide hydrolysis metabolites accounted for 74.8 and 7.59% of the dose, respectively, whereas in rats, these metabolites accounted for 31.9 and 20% of dose, respectively. 4. In vitro studies with fresh rat tissue homogenates indicated that lung and kidney were the primary organs involved in mediating formation of the beta-lactam ring-opened metabolite. The specific inhibitor of dehydropeptidase-I, cilastatin, inhibited the in vivo and in vitro metabolism of ertapenem in rats, which suggested strongly that the hydrolysis of ertapenem in lung and kidney was mediated by this enzyme.
15282090	Epimerization study of the L,L- and L,D-diastereoisomers of the calpain inhibitor MDL 28170 by capillary electrophoresis.	MDL 28170, Cbz-(L)-Val-(D,L)-Phe-H, which exists as a mixture of L,L- and L,D-diastereoisomers, is a calpain inhibitor currently investigated as a novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of ischemic stroke and head and spinal trauma. This report describes a capillary electrophoresis (CE) method that uses sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) micellar electrokinetic conditions for the separation of the L,L- and L,D-diastereoisomers of MDL 28170. The report also describes the applications of this CE method to the study of epimerization of the L,L- and L,D-diastereoisomers in pH 7.4 phosphate buffered saline solution (PBS), rat and human plasma at 37 degrees C. The relative percent-time courses obtained showed interconversion of the diastereoisomers in all three matrices studied. However, the epimerization process in rat and human plasma was found to be at least 50 times faster than that in PBS. The epimerization half-life of the L,L-diastereoisomer in rat plasma was approximately 30 min, which is about three-fold faster than the observed elimination half-life of the L,L-diastereoisomer reported in a pharmacokinetic study following intravenous bolus dosing.
6639677	Ethanol metabolism in heavy drinkers after massive and moderate alcohol intake.	Some alcoholics have a regular daily alcohol consumption of more than 100 g. In preliminary observations we had the impression that the claimed alcohol intake in such 'heavy drinkers' was higher than could be accounted for by the ethanol elimination rate as measured routinely at 10 mmol/l (0.5 g/l). We therefore measured the ethanol elimination rate at very high blood ethanol concentrations of 40-80 mmol/l (2-4 g/l) found in eight alcoholics following heavy alcohol intake by measuring the falling blood ethanol concentrations until being less than 1 mmol/l. The elimination rate, on average 83 mumol/min per 1 blood, was about 49% higher than the elimination rate measured at 10 mmol/l in the same subject, being on average 58 mumol/min per 1/blood (paired t-test, P less than 0.05). The elimination rate following the high initial ethanol concentrations remained high until the concentration was below 5 mmol/l. Calculations of elimination rates are based on a number of assumptions concerning the physiologic and metabolic conditions. We examined specifically if the concentration-time curves could be adequately described by assuming metabolism according to a Michaelis-Menten pathway with a low Km value (simulating alcoholdehydrogenase with Km 0.2 mmol/l) or by assuming metabolism by two pathways with an alternative high-Km pathway with Km about 10 mmol/l. It was not necessary, in the statistical analysis, to include an alternative high-Km pathway. On the other hand, the data does give room for up to 50% elimination via such alternative pathways. The elimination rate at the high concentrations corresponded roughly to the claimed daily alcohol intake; furthermore the measured elimination rate at the lower concentrations were similar to values in non-alcoholics.
20073472	Development of a hydrophilic liquid interaction chromatography-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry based stable isotope dilution analysis and pharmacokinetic studies on bioactive pyridines in human plasma and urine after coffee consumption.	The paper reports on the development of an accurate hydrophilic liquid interaction chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HILIC-MS/MS) based stable isotope dilution analysis for the simultaneous quantitation of the food-derived bioactive pyridines trigonelline, nicotinic acid, nicotinamide, and N-methylpyridinium, as well as their key metabolites nicotinamide-N-oxide, N-methylnicotinamide, N-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxamide, N-methyl-4-pyridone-5-carboxamide, and N-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxylic acid in human plasma and urine. Precision of the stable isotope dilution analysis (SIDA) was 1.9% and 11.9% relative standard deviation (n = 6), and accuracy was between 92.4% and 113.0%. The lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) was 50 fmol (10 pmol/mL) injected onto the column for all analytes with the exception of N-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxylic acid and N-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxamide, for which an LLOQ of 100 fmol (20 pmol/mL) was found. The method was applied to monitor the plasma appearance and urinary excretion and to determine pharmacokinetic parameters of the bioactive pyridines as well as their metabolites in a clinical human intervention study with healthy volunteers (six women, seven men) after oral administration of 350 mL of a standard coffee beverage. Trigonelline plasma levels increased from 160 nmol/L to maximum concentrations of 5479 (males) or 6547 nmol/L (females), and N-methylpyridinium plasma levels raised from virtually complete absence to maximum values of 777 (females) or 804 nmol/L (males) within 2-3 and 1-2 h after coffee consumption, respectively. The high plasma levels of N-methylpyridinium found after coffee consumption clearly demonstrate for the first time that this cation is entering the vascular system, which is the prerequisite for biological in vivo effects claimed for that compound. In contrast, the coffee intervention did not significantly influence the plasma concentrations of N-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxamide and N-methyl-4-pyridone-5-carboxamide, the major niacin metabolites. Within 8 h after coffee intervention, an urinary excretion of 57.4 +/- 6.9% of trigonelline and 69.1 +/- 6.2% of N-methylpyridinium was found for the male volunteers, whereas females excreted slightly less with 46.2 +/- 7.4% and 61.9 +/- 12.2% of these pyridines.
17268056	In vitro metabolism of (-)-camphor using human liver microsomes and CYP2A6.	The in vitro metabolism of (-)-camphor was examined in human liver microsomes and recombinant enzymes. Biotransformation of (-)-camphor was investigated by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). (-)-Camphor was oxidized to 5-exo-hydroxyfenchone by human liver microsomal cytochrome (P450) enzymes. The formation of metabolites of (-)-camphor was determined by the relative abundance of mass fragments and retention time on gas chromatography (GC). CYP2A6 was the major enzyme involved in the hydroxylation of (-)-camphor by human liver microsomes, based on the following lines of evidence. First, of eleven recombinant human P450 enzymes tested, CYP2A6 catalyzed the oxidation of (-)-camphor. Second, oxidation of (-)-camphor was inhibited by (+)-menthofuran and anti-CYP2A6 antibody. Finally, there was a good correlation between CYP2A6 contents and (-)-camphor hydroxylation activities in liver microsomes of 9 human samples.
21345682	Synthesis and biological evaluation of L-valine-amidoximeesters as double prodrugs of amidines.	In general, drugs containing amidines suffer from poor oral bioavailability and are often converted into amidoxime prodrugs to overcome low uptake from the gastrointestinal tract. The esterification of amidoximes with amino acids represents a newly developed double prodrug principle creating derivatives of amidines with both improved oral availability and water solubility. N-valoxybenzamidine (1) is a model compound for this principle, which has been transferred to the antiprotozoic drug pentamidine (8). Prodrug activation depends on esterases and mARC and is thus independent from activation by P450 enzymes. Therefore, drug-drug interactions or side effects will be minimized. The synthesis of these two compounds was established, and their biotransformation was studied in vitro and in vivo. Bioactivation of N-valoxybenzamidine (1) and N,N'-bis(valoxy)pentamidine (7) via hydrolysis and reduction has been demonstrated in vitro with porcine and human subcellular enzyme preparations and the mitochondrial Amidoxime Reducing Component (mARC). Moreover, activation of N-valoxybenzamidine (1) by porcine hepatocytes was studied. In vivo, the bioavailability in rats after oral application of N-valoxybenzamidine (1) was about 88%. Similarly, N,N'-bis(valoxy)pentamidine (7) showed oral bioavailability. Analysis of tissue samples revealed high concentrations of pentamidine (8) in liver and kidney.
15547048	Sertraline is metabolized by multiple cytochrome P450 enzymes, monoamine oxidases, and glucuronyl transferases in human: an in vitro study.	The oxidative and conjugative metabolism of sertraline was examined in vitro to identify the enzymes involved in the generation of N-desmethyl, deaminated, and N-carbamoyl-glucuronidated metabolites in humans. In human liver microsomes, sertraline was N-demethylated and deaminated by cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes with overall K(m) values of 98 and 114 microM, respectively, but the intrinsic clearance for N-demethylation was approximately 20-fold greater than for deamination. Using P450 isoform-selective inhibitors and recombinant heterologously expressed enzymes, it was demonstrated that several P450 enzymes catalyzed sertraline N-demethylation, with CYP2B6 contributing the greatest extent, and lesser contributions from CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6. For deamination, data supported a role for CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Purified human monoamine oxidases A and B also catalyzed sertraline deamination with comparable K(m) values (230-270 microM). Monoamine oxidase B catalyzed the reaction approximately 3-fold faster than did monoamine oxidase A. Sertraline N-carbamoyl glucuronidation was measured in human liver microsomes in bicarbonate buffer and under a CO2 atmosphere (K(m) = 50 microM) and was catalyzed at the fastest rate by recombinant human UGT2B7. The observation that multiple enzymes appear to be involved in sertraline metabolism suggests that there should be no single agent that could substantially alter the pharmacokinetics of sertraline, nor should there be any single drug-metabolizing enzyme genetic polymorphism (e.g., CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, UGT1A1) that could profoundly impact the pharmacokinetics of sertraline.
11682384	Plasma lidocaine concentrations during continuous thoracic epidural anesthesia after clonidine premedication in children.	There is no report concerning oral clonidine's effects on epidural lidocaine in children. Therefore, we performed a study to assess the concentrations of plasma lidocaine and its major metabolite (monoethylglycinexylidide [MEGX]) in children receiving continuous thoracic epidural anesthesia after oral clonidine premedication. Ten pediatric patients, aged 1-9 yr, were randomly allocated to the Control or Clonidine 4 microg/kg group (n = 5 each). Anesthesia was induced and maintained with sevoflurane in oxygen and air (FIO2 40%). Epidural puncture and tubing were carefully performed at the Th11-12 intervertebral space. An initial dose of 1% lidocaine (5 mg/kg) was injected through a catheter into the epidural space, followed by 2.5 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1). Plasma concentrations of lidocaine and MEGX were measured at 15 min, 30 min, and every 60 min for 4 h after the initiation of continuous epidural injection. The concentrations of lidocaine and MEGX were measured using high-pressure liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. Hemodynamic variables were similar between members of the Control and Clonidine groups during anesthesia. The Clonidine group showed significantly smaller lidocaine concentrations (p < 0.05) and the concentration of MEGX tended to be smaller in the plasma of the Clonidine group for the initial 4 h after the initiation of epidural infusion. In conclusion, oral clonidine preanesthetic medication at a dose of 4 microg/kg decreases plasma lidocaine concentration in children. Oral clonidine decreases the plasma lidocaine concentration in children. Our finding may have clinical implications in patients receiving continuous epidural anesthesia. Additionally, perhaps an additional margin of safety regarding lidocaine toxicity is gained through the use of oral clonidine in children who will receive epidural lidocaine.
18064444	Artemisinin and CYP2A6 activity in healthy subjects.	To investigate whether the antimalarial drug artemisinin affects CYP2A6 activity in healthy subjects and to compare the utility of coumarin and nicotine as in vivo probe compounds for CYP2A6. Twelve healthy male Vietnamese subjects were given coumarin or nicotine in randomized sequence before and after 5 days of a repeated oral administration of artemisinin during two different treatment periods 1 month apart. Sequential blood samples were drawn at baseline 7 days prior to artemisinin treatment and on the first and fifth day of artemisinin treatment during both treatment periods. Plasma concentrations of 7-hydroxycoumarin glucuronide (7-OHCG), nicotine, cotinine and artemisinin were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography and those of coumarin and 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-OHC) were determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Urine, collected in two time intervals on the days of coumarin intake, was treated with beta-glucuronidase and analysed for 7-OHC levels. Artemisinin AUC(0-infinity) values decreased significantly to 23% [95% confidence interval (CI) 18%-28%] on the fifth day of artemisinin administration as compared with the first. The sum of renally excreted 7-OHC and 7-OHCG increased by 1.55-fold (adjusted 95% CI 1.08-2.23) in the 3- to 8-h interval compared to baseline 7 days before. The 7-OHCG/7-OHC plasma AUC(0-infinity) ratio increased by 1.72-fold (adjusted 95% CI 1.16-2.54) following 5 days of artemisinin intake. There was no significant change in the cotinine/nicotine AUC(0-11 hr) ratio between study days. Artemisinin significantly increased the sum of renally excreted 7-OHC and 7-OHCG in one of the two collection intervals, suggesting an induction of CYP2A6. A significant increase in the 7-OHCG to 7-OHC AUC(0-infinity) ratio indicates artemisinin to be an inducer of glucuronidation.
23209194	The potential of Sutherlandia frutescens for herb-drug interaction.	In Africa, Sutherlandia frutescens is a popular medicinal herb widely consumed by people living with human immunodeficiency virus/AIDS. Concomitant use with antiretroviral drugs has generated concerns of herb-drug interaction (HDI). This study investigated the inhibitory effects of the crude extracts of S. frutescens on the major cytochrome P450 isozymes with the use of pooled human liver microsomes. Its effect on the metabolic clearance of midazolam using cryopreserved hepatocytes was also monitored. The potential of S. frutescens to inhibit human ATP-binding cassette transporters (P-gp and BCRP) and the human organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP1B1 and OATP1B3) activity was assessed using cell lines overexpressing the transporter proteins. S. frutescens showed inhibitory potency for CYP1A2 (IC(50) = 41.0 g/ml), CYP2A6 (IC(50) = 160 g/ml), CYP2B6 (IC(50) = 20.0 g/ml), CYP2C8 (IC(50) = 22.4 g/ml), CYP2C9 (IC(50) = 23.0 g/ml), CYP2C19 (IC(50) = 35.9 g/ml), and CYP3A4/5 (IC(50) = 17.5 g/ml [with midazolam1'-hydroxylation]; IC(50) = 28.3 g/ml [with testosterone 6-hydroxylation]). Time-dependent (irreversible) inhibition by S. frutescens was observed for CYP3A4/5 (K(I) = 296 g/ml, k(inact) = 0.063 min(-1)) under the conditions of this study. S. frutescens also delays the production of midazolam metabolites in the hepatocytes, decreasing its clearance by 40%. Furthermore, S. frutescens inhibited P-gp (IC(50) = 324.8 g/ml), OATP1B1 (IC(50) = 10.4 g/ml), and OATP1B3 (IC(50) = 6.6 g/ml). The result indicates the potential for HDI between S. frutescens and the substrates of the affected enzymes, if sufficient in vivo concentration of the extract is attained.
21992520	Pulmonary toxicity and metabolic activation of tetrandrine in CD-1 mice.	Tetrandrine, a bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid, has demonstrated promising pharmacologic activities. The alkaloid has a great potential for clinical use, so a careful, thorough toxicity evaluation of the alkaloid is required. In the present study, 24 h acute toxicity of tetrandrine was evaluated in CD-1 mice. Single intraperitoneal doses of tetrandrine at 150 mg (0.24 mmol)/kg were found to cause alveolar hemorrhage and over 3-fold elevation of lactate dehydrogenase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids. Ethidium-based staining showed loss of membrane integrity in significant numbers of cells in the lungs of the animals treated with the same doses of tetrandrine. As much as 60% reduction in cell viability was observed after 24 h of exposure to tetrandrine at 40 M in human lung cell lines NL-20 and WI-38. Ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A, showed a protective effect on the pulmonary injury in mice given tetrandrine. A glutathione (GSH) conjugate derived from O-demethylated tetrandrine was detected in incubations of tetrandrine with NADPH- and GSH-supplemented human liver and mouse lung microsomes. The electrophilic metabolite trapped by GSH is considered to be a quinone methide derivative. The formation of the metabolite reactive to GSH was found to require the presence of NADPH. The coincubation of ketoconazole suppressed the generation of the GSH conjugate. Tetrandrine was incubated with a selection of recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes, and only P450s 3A4 and 3A5 were responsible for the production of the reactive metabolite. The results implicate a possible correlation between the formation of the quinone methide metabolite of tetrandrine and the pulmonary toxicity induced by tetrandrine.
16506809	Urolithins, ellagic acid-derived metabolites produced by human colonic microflora, exhibit estrogenic and antiestrogenic activities.	Urolithins A and B (hydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one derivatives) are colonic microflora metabolites recently proposed as biomarkers of human exposure to dietary ellagic acid derivatives. Molecular models suggest that urolithins could display estrogenic and/or antiestrogenic activity. To this purpose, both urolithins and other known phytoestrogens (genistein, daidzein, resveratrol, and enterolactone) were assayed to evaluate the capacity to induce cell proliferation on the estrogen-sensitive human breast cancer MCF-7 cells as well as the ability to bind to alpha- and beta-estrogen receptors. Both urolithins A and B showed estrogenic activity in a dose-dependent manner even at high concentrations (40 microM), without antiproliferative or toxic effects, whereas the other phytoestrogens inhibited cell proliferation at high concentrations. Overall, urolithins showed weaker estrogenic activity than the other phytoestrogens. However, both urolithins displayed slightly higher antiestrogenic activity (antagonized the growth promotion effect of 17-beta-estradiol in a dose-dependent manner) than the other phytoestrogens. The IC(50) values for the ERalpha and ERbeta binding assays were 0.4 and 0.75 microM for urolithin A; 20 and 11 microM for urolithin B; 3 and 0.02 for genistein; and 2.3 and 1 for daidzein, respectively; no binding was detected for resveratrol and enterolactone. Urolithins A and B entered into MCF-7 cells and were metabolized to yield mainly urolithin-sulfate derivatives. These results, together with previous studies regarding absorption and metabolism of dietary ellagitannins and ellagic acid in humans, suggest that the gut microflora metabolites urolithins are potential endocrine-disrupting molecules, which could resemble other described "enterophytoestrogens" (microflora-derived metabolites with estrogenic/antiestrogenic activity). Further research is warranted to evaluate the possible role of ellagitannins and ellagic acid as dietary "pro-phytoestrogens".
18804610	Simultaneous determination of cefotaxime and desacetylcefotaxime in real urine sample using voltammetric and high-performance liquid chromatographic methods.	Two rapid, accurate and sensitive methods are developed and validated for the quantitative simultaneous determination of cefotaxime (CFX) and its active metabolite desacetylcefotaxime (DCFX) in urine. Based on the previous results which showed the four electron reduction of CFX at approximately -0.5 V, and the new findings that DCFX reduction occurred at more positive potential (-0.23 V), the new adsorptive stripping differential pulse voltammetric (AdSDPV) method was developed for determination of CFX in the presence of DCFX. Linear responses were observed over a wide concentration range (0.07-0.52 microg/ml for CFX and 0.22-1.3 microg/ml for DCFX) in urine. The second assay involves subsequent separation on a reversed-phase HPLC column, with ultraviolet detection at 262 nm. Retention times were 4.057 and 1.960 min for CFX and DCFX, respectively. Linear responses were observed over a wide range, 0.55-6.60 microg/ml for CFX and 1.10-11.00 microg/ml for DCFX, in urine. The statistical evaluation for both methods was examined by means of within-day repeatability (n=5) and day-to-day precision (n=3) and was found to be satisfactory with high accuracy and precision.
22513143	Role of human CYP3A4 in the biotransformation of sorafenib to its major oxidized metabolites.	The tyrosine kinase inhibitor drug sorafenib is used in the treatment of liver and renal cancers but adverse effects may necessitate dose interruption and under-dosage may lead to therapeutic failure. Sorafenib also undergoes cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent biotransformation to the N-oxide and other metabolites. However, although CYPs are major determinants of efficacy and toxicity the roles of these enzymes in the formation of multiple sorafenib metabolites are unclear. In the present study CYP-mediated pathways of sorafenib oxidation in human liver were evaluated. cDNA-expressed CYP3A4 was the major catalyst in the formation of the principal N-oxide and N-hydroxymethyl metabolites of sorafenib, as well as the minor N-desmethyl metabolite. In contrast, CYP3A5 exhibited only ~5% of the activity of CYP3A4 and eleven other CYPs and three flavin-containing monooxygenases were inactive. In human hepatic microsomes metabolite formation was correlated with CYP3A4-mediated midazolam 1'-hydroxylation, but not with other CYP-specific substrate oxidations. In accord with these findings the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole selectively inhibited microsomal sorafenib oxidation pathways. From computational modeling studies atoms in the structure of sorafenib that undergo biotransformation were within ~5.4  of the CYP3A4 heme. Important hydrogen bonding interactions between sorafenib and amino acids Ser-119 and Glu-374 in the active center of CYP3A4 were identified. These findings indicate that sorafenib is oxidized selectively by human CYP3A4. This information could be adapted in individualized approaches to optimize sorafenib safety and efficacy in cancer patients.
20980118	An HPLC-MS/MS method for the quantitative determination of 4-hydroxy-anethole trithione in human plasma and its application to a pharmacokinetic study.	A selective, rapid and sensitive method for the quantitation of 4-hydroxy-anethole trithione (ATX) in human plasma based on high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) was developed and validated. Paracetamol was used as the internal standard (I.S.). After liquid-liquid extraction of 500 L plasma with ethyl acetate, ATX and the I.S. were chromatographed on an Inertsil() ODS-3 column. The mobile phase was consisted of methanol-water (75:25, v/v) with a flow rate of 0.25 mL/min. The detection was performed on a triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode via electrospray ionization (ESI) source. The calibration curve was linear over the range of 0.452-603 ng/mL (r(2)0.99) with a lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) of 0.452 ng/mL. The intra- and inter-day precision (relative standard deviation, R.S.D.) values were below 13% and the accuracy (relative error, R.E.) was from -2.7% to -7.5% at three quality control levels. The assay herein described was successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study of anethole trithione (ATT) tablet in healthy volunteers after oral administration.
22429462	In vitro bioactivation of bazedoxifene and 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-1H-indol-5-ol in human liver microsomes.	Bazedoxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has been developed for use in post-menopausal osteoporosis. However, it contains a potentially toxic 5-hydroxy-3-methylindole moiety. Previous studies on the 5-hydroxyindole and the 3-alkylindole-containing drugs indometacine, zafirlukast and MK-0524 structural analogs have shown that they are bioactivated by cytochrome P450s through a dehydrogenation process to form quinoneimine or 3-methyleneindolenine electrophilic species. In the present study, bazedoxifene was synthesized and then evaluated, together with raloxifene and 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-1H-indol-5-ol (13), a 3-methyl-5-hydroxyindole-based structural fragment of bazedoxifene, for its ability to form reactive electrophilic species when incubated with human liver microsomes (HLMs) or recombinant CYP isozymes. We showed that bazedoxifene was bioactivated only in trace amounts with recombinant CYP isozymes. In contrast, the N-dealkylated fragment of bazedoxifene (2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-1H-indol-5-ol) was bioactivated in considerable amounts to an electrophilic intermediate, which was trapped with glutathione and identified by LC-MS/MS. This suggests that bazedoxifene would require initial N-dealkylation, which could subsequently lead to the formation of the reactive intermediate. However, such an N-dealkylated metabolite of bazedoxifene was not detected after the incubation of bazedoxifene in HLM or recombinant CYP isozymes.
23689070	A Norwegian study of the suitability of hair samples in epidemiological research of alcohol, nicotine and drug use.	A feasibility study was performed to examine the effectiveness of hair testing in determining the prevalence of drug use in a young adult population. The study included 200 randomly selected young adults in Norway. It was designed to make the collection, preparation and analysis of the samples as little resource demaning as possible. Full anonymity was provided for the participants. In total, 23.5% of the samples were positive for one or more substances (14.5%, excluding the nicotine metabolite cotinine). Of the samples, 5% were positive for at least one illegal drug, 9.5% for a medicinal drug, 11.5% for cotinine and 2.5% for the alcohol metabolite ethyl glucuronide. The preliminary findings suggest that the study protocol used to collect and analyze the samples was unable to produce results that could be generalized to the young adult population in Norway. Analysis of hair samples may underestimate the use of cannabis, alcohol, amphetamine and methamphetamine. It may, however, be done to estimate cocaine and general drug use if a sample-collection procedure different from that described in our study is used and includes information about hair length, sample length, length from the scalp, cosmetic treatment, washing and whether the samples always get washed/decontaminated prior to analysis.
16581944	Stereoselective metabolism of endosulfan by human liver microsomes and human cytochrome P450 isoforms.	Endosulfan (6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,3,4-benzo(e)dioxathiepin-3-oxide) is a broad-spectrum chlorinated cyclodiene insecticide. This study was performed to elucidate the stereoselective metabolism of endosulfan in human liver microsomes and to characterize the cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes that are involved in the metabolism of endosulfan. Human liver microsomal incubation of endosulfan in the presence of NADPH resulted in the formation of the toxic metabolite, endosulfan sulfate. The intrinsic clearances (CL(int)) of endosulfan sulfate from beta-endosulfan were 3.5-fold higher than those from alpha-endosulfan, suggesting that beta-endosulfan would be cleared more rapidly than alpha-endosulfan. Correlation analysis between the known P450 enzyme activities and the rate of the formation of endosulfan sulfate in the 14 human liver microsomes showed that alpha-endosulfan metabolism is significantly correlated with CYP2B6-mediated bupropion hydroxylation and CYP3A-mediated midazolam hydroxylation, and that beta-endosulfan metabolism is correlated with CYP3A activity. The P450 isoform-selective inhibition study in human liver microsomes and the incubation study of cDNA-expressed enzymes also demonstrated that the stereoselective sulfonation of alpha-endosulfan is mediated by CYP2B6, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5, and that that of beta-endosulfan is transformed by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. The total CL(int) values of endosulfan sulfate formation catalyzed by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 were consistently higher for beta-endosulfan than for the alpha-form (CL(int) of 0.67 versus 10.46 microl/min/pmol P450, respectively). CYP2B6 enantioselectively metabolizes alpha-endosulfan, but not beta-endosulfan. These findings suggest that the CYP2B6 and CYP3A enzymes are major enzymes contributing to the stereoselective disposition of endosulfan.
20486268	A gas chromatography/mass spectrometry method for the determination of sildenafil, vardenafil and tadalafil and their metabolites in human urine.	Sildenafil (SDF), vardenafil (VDF) and tadalafil (TDF) are phosphodiesterase type 5 enzyme inhibitors (PDE5Is), used in the treatment of erectile disorders and to improve breathing efficiency in pulmonary hypertension. The increasing incidence of their use among young athletes has drawn the attention of the anti-doping authorities to the possible abuse of PDE5Is by athletes due to their pharmacological activities. This paper describes a method for the determination in urine of PDE5Is and their metabolites by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) after liquid/liquid extraction of the analytes from urine and derivatisation to obtain trimethylsilyl derivatives. The metabolic profile was studied on real samples collected from subjects taking PDE5Is (Viagra, Levitra or Cialis); the main urinary metabolites were identified and their MS fragmentation characterized. The sample pre-treatment and GC/MS conditions for the detection of the metabolites have been optimised. A method for their preliminary screening and subsequent confirmation is described that takes into account the general requirements of a routine doping analysis to be used for the screening of large numbers of samples. The main metabolites identified can be included in a general purpose screening method and all the metabolites in a more specific confirmation method. The method developed has been applied for the screening of PDE5Is in 5000 urine samples. Based on the obtained results, the proposed method appears to be of practical use in analytical and forensic toxicology, including doping analysis.
22331994	Effect of albumin on human liver microsomal and recombinant CYP1A2 activities: impact on in vitro-in vivo extrapolation of drug clearance.	Long-chain unsaturated fatty acids inhibit several cytochrome P450 and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes involved in drug metabolism, including CYP2C8, CYP2C9, UGT1A9, UGT2B4, and UGT2B7. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) enhances these cytochrome P450 and UGT activities by sequestering fatty acids that are released from membranes, especially with human liver microsomes (HLM) as the enzyme source. Here, we report the effects of BSA on CYP1A2-catalyzed phenacetin (PHEN) O-deethylation and lidocaine (LID) N-deethylation using HLM and Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant human CYP1A2 (rCYP1A2) as the enzyme sources. BSA (2% w/v) reduced (p < 0.05) the K(m) values of the high-affinity components of human liver microsomal PHEN and LID deethylation by approximately 70%, without affecting V(max). The K(m) (or S(50)) values for PHEN and LID deethylation by rCYP1A2 were reduced to a similar extent. A fatty acid mixture, comprising 3 M concentrations each of oleic acid and linoleic acid plus 1.5 M arachidonic acid, doubled the K(m) value for PHEN O-deethylation by rCYP1A2. Inhibition was reversed by the addition of BSA. K(i) values for the individual fatty acids ranged from 4.7 to 16.7 M. Single-point in vitro-in vivo extrapolation (IV-IVE) based on the human liver microsomal kinetic parameters obtained in the presence, but not absence, of BSA predicted in vivo hepatic clearances of PHEN O-deethylation and LID N-deethylation that were comparable to values reported in humans, although in vivo intrinsic clearances were underpredicted. Prediction of the in vivo clearances of the CYP1A2 substrates observed here represents an improvement on other experimental systems used for IV-IVE.
22645092	Selective mechanism-based inactivation of CYP3A4 by CYP3cide (PF-04981517) and its utility as an in vitro tool for delineating the relative roles of CYP3A4 versus CYP3A5 in the metabolism of drugs.	CYP3cide (PF-4981517; 1-methyl-3-[1-methyl-5-(4-methylphenyl)-1H-pyrazol-4-yl]-4-[(3S)-3-piperidin-1-ylpyrrolidin-1-yl]-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine) is a potent, efficient, and specific time-dependent inactivator of human CYP3A4. When investigating its inhibitory properties, an extreme metabolic inactivation efficiency (k(inact)/K(I)) of 3300 to 3800 ml  min  mol was observed using human liver microsomes from donors of nonfunctioning CYP3A5 (CYP3A5 *3/*3). This observed efficiency equated to an apparent K(I) between 420 and 480 nM with a maximal inactivation rate (k(inact)) equal to 1.6 min. Similar results were achieved with testosterone, another CYP3A substrate, and other sources of the CYP3A4 enzyme. To further illustrate the abilities of CYP3cide, its partition ratio of inactivation was determined with recombinant CYP3A4. These studies produced a partition ratio approaching unity, thus underscoring the inactivation capacity of CYP3cide. When CYP3cide was tested at a concentration and preincubation time to completely inhibit CYP3A4 in a library of genotyped polymorphic CYP3A5 microsomes, the correlation of the remaining midazolam 1'-hydroxylase activity to CYP3A5 abundance was significant (R value equal to 0.51, p value of <0.0001). The work presented here supports these findings by fully characterizing the inhibitory properties and exploring CYP3cide's mechanism of action. To aid the researcher, multiple commercially available sources of CYP3cide were established, and a protocol was developed to quantitatively determine CYP3A4 contribution to the metabolism of an investigational compound. Through the establishment of this protocol and the evidence provided here, we believe that CYP3cide is a very useful tool for understanding the relative roles of CYP3A4 versus CYP3A5 and the impact of CYP3A5 genetic polymorphism on a compound's pharmacokinetics.
19819140	Synthesis and structural assignment of two major metabolites of the LTA4H inhibitor DG-051.	The same two major CYP mediated metabolites of DG-051 were produced in the presence of rat, dog, monkey and human liver microsomes. Their respective structures were hypothesized based on mass spectrometry data correlated with the parent structure and confirmed by comparison with authentic synthetic samples. The number of regioisomers synthesized as candidates for metabolite M1 was narrowed down using a metabolic study of a selectively deuterated DG-051 analogue.
23122405	Determination of piperphentonamine and metabolites M1 and M6 in human plasma and urine by LC/MS/MS and its application in a pharmacokinetics study in Chinese healthy volunteers.	Piperphentonamine hydrochloride (PPTA) is a new calcium sensitizer. A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method for determination of piperphentonamine and its metabolites M1 and M6 was developed for the first time and applied to a pharmacokinetics study. Protein precipitation was used for pre-treatment of plasma samples, and solid phase extraction method was used for pre-treatment of urine samples. The chromatographic separation was achieved on a C(18) column using gradient elution in this study: A: 1% acetic acid aqueous solution, and B: acetonitrile. The whole analysis lasted for 10.5min and the gradient flow rate was 0.25mL/min constantly. The detection was performed of a triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode via a positive electrospray ionization source. The results were that the m/z ratios of monitored precursor ions and product ions of PPTA, M1 and M6 were 354.0191.8, 356.0148.7 and 358.0148.7, respectively. From the standard curve, the concentration ranges of both PPTA and M1 in blood and urine samples were 0.1-500ng/mL and 0.1-200ng/mL, respectively; the concentration ranges of M6 in blood sample and urine sample were 0.2-500ng/mL and 0.2-200ng/mL, respectively; and the correlation coefficient of standard curve was r>0.99. A total of 31 healthy Chinese subjects participated in the pharmacokinetic study of single bolus intravenous injection of piperphentonamine hydrochloride. They were divided into three dosage groups and given 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6mg/kg of PPTA. After drug administration, concentrations of PPTA, M1 and M6 in human plasma and urine samples were determined to evaluation the pharmacokinetic characteristics of PPTA and its metabolites M1 and M6.
19082692	Metabolism and renal elimination of gaboxadol in humans: role of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases and transporters.	Gaboxadol, a selective extrasynaptic agonist of the delta-containing gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor, is excreted in humans into the urine as parent drug and glucuronide conjugate. The goal of this study was to identify the UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes and the transporters involved in the metabolism and active renal secretion of gaboxadol and its metabolite in humans.Methods. The structure of the glucuronide conjugate of gaboxadol in human urine was identified by LC/MS/MS. Human recombinant UGT isoforms were used to identify the enzymes responsible for the glucuronidation of gaboxadol. Transport of gaboxadol and its glucuronide was evaluated using cell lines and membrane vesicles expressing human organic anion transporters hOAT1 and hOAT3, organic cation transporter hOCT2, and the multidrug resistance proteins MRP2 and MRP4.Results. Our study indicated that the gaboxadol-O-glucuronide was the major metabolite excreted in human urine. UGT1A9, and to a lesser extent UGT1A6, UGT1A7 and UGT1A8, catalyzed the O-glucuronidation of gaboxadol in vitro. Gaboxadol was transported by hOAT1, but not by hOCT2, hOAT3, MRP2, and MRP4. Gaboxadol-O-glucuronide was transported by MRP4, but not MRP2.Conlusion. Gaboxadol could be taken up into the kidney by hOAT1 followed by glucuronidation and efflux of the conjugate into urine via MRP4.
17640957	Haplotypes and a novel defective allele of CES2 found in a Japanese population.	Human carboxylesterase 2 (hCE-2) is a member of the serine esterase superfamily and is responsible for hydrolysis of a wide variety of xenobiotic and endogenous esters. hCE-2 also activates an anticancer drug, irinotecan (7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin, CPT-11), into its active metabolite, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38). In this study, a comprehensive haplotype analysis of the CES2 gene, which encodes hCE-2, in a Japanese population was conducted. Using 21 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including 4 nonsynonymous SNPs, 100C>T (Arg(34)Trp, *2), 424G>A (Val(142)Met, *3), 1A>T (Met(1)Leu, *5), and 617G>A (Arg(206)His, *6), and a SNP at the splice acceptor site of intron 8 (IVS8-2A>G, *4), 20 haplotypes were identified in 262 Japanese subjects. In 176 Japanese cancer patients who received irinotecan, associations of CES2 haplotypes and changes in a pharmacokinetic parameter, (SN-38 + SN-38G)/CPT-11 area under the plasma concentration curve (AUC) ratio, were analyzed. No significant association was found among the major haplotypes of the *1 group lacking nonsynonymous or defective SNPs. However, patients with nonsynonymous SNPs, 100C>T (Arg(34)Trp) or 1A>T (Met(1)Leu), showed substantially reduced AUC ratios. In vitro functional characterization of the SNPs was conducted and showed that the 1A>T SNP affected translational but not transcriptional efficiency. These findings are useful for further pharmacogenetic studies on CES2-activated prodrugs.
21404278	In vitro metabolism and disposition of honokiol in rat and human livers.	The biotransformation of honokiol, a major constituent of the bark of Magnolia officinalis, was investigated in rat and human livers. When isolated, rat livers were perfused with 10 M honokiol and two metabolites, namely hydroxylated honokiol conjugated with glucuronic and sulfuric acid (M1) and honokiol monoglucuronide (M2), were quantified in bile and perfusate by high-performance liquid chromatography. The hepatic extraction ratio and clearance of honokiol was very high in rat liver (E: 0.99  0.01 and 35.8  0.04 mL/min, respectively) leading to very low bioavailability (F = 0.007  0.001). M2 formation was also highly efficient in human liver microsomes [V(max) /K(m) = 78.1  6.73 L/(min mg)], which appeared to be catalyzed mainly by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A1, A3, 1A8, and 1A10, indicating hepatic and extrahepatic glucuronidation. Monosulfation of honokiol to the minor metabolite honokiol monosulfate [V(max) /K(m) = 27.9  4.33 L/(min mg)] by human liver cytosol was less pronounced and is mediated by sulfotransferases 1A1* 1, 1A1* 2, 1A2, 1A3, 1B1, and 1E1. P450-mediated oxidation of honokiol by liver microsomes, however, was below detection limit. In summary, this study established that glucuronidation and sulfation are the main metabolic pathways for honokiol in rat and human liver, suggesting their major contribution to clearance in vivo.
16418697	Effects of itraconazole and tandospirone on the pharmacokinetics of perospirone.	Perospirone is an atypical antipsychotic agent originated and clinically used in Japan. Based on an in vitro study, it is reported that perospirone is mainly metabolized to ID-15036 by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. In this study, the authors investigated the effects of itraconazole, which is a specific inhibitor of CYP3A4, or tandospirone, which is mainly metabolized by CYP3A4 and is expected to competitively inhibit the activity of this enzyme, on single oral dose pharmacokinetics of perospirone. After pretreatment with 200 mg daily of itraconazole or 10 mg daily of tandospirone for 5 days, 9 healthy male subjects received 8 mg of perospirone. Plasma concentrations of perospirone and ID-15036 up to 10 hours after perospirone dosing were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The metabolism of perospirone was significantly inhibited by treatment with itraconazole but not by tandospirone. The present study suggests that CYP3A4 is significantly involved in metabolism of perospirone in humans.
23763649	Non-clinical evaluation of the metabolism, pharmacokinetics and excretion of S-777469, a new cannabinoid receptor 2 selective agonist.	1.The drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics of S-777469 were investigated in in vitro (rat, dog and human) and in in vivo (rats and dogs). 2.S-777469 was rapidly and well absorbed, with bioavailability values ranging from 50 to 70% in rats and dogs, almost all drug radioactivity was excreted into the feces via bile within 48h. Thus, good pharmacokinetics of S-777469 (e.g. systemic exposure and excretion rate) would be anticipated in humans. 3.In vitro metabolism of S-777469 was qualitatively similar in rat, dog and human hepatocytes. S-777469 acyl glucuronide, S-777469 5-hydroxymethyl and S-777469 4-hydroxycyclohexane were the main metabolites in rats, dogs and humans. In vivo metabolism in rats and dogs showed good qualitative agreement with in vitro metabolism, and no metabolites exceeded 10% of total radioactivity in rat and dog plasma. 4.No unique metabolites were observed in human hepatocytes. Therefore, rats and dogs were thought to be appropriate species for non-clinical toxicity studies. 5.In conclusion, these data should be useful for the characterization of the pharmacokinetic properties of S-777469 and the estimation of its pharmacokinetic fate in humans.
15684493	Identification of human P450 isoforms involved in the metabolism of the antiallergic drug, oxatomide, and its kinetic parameters and inhibition constants.	Oxatomide is an antiallergic drug used for the treatment of diseases mediated by type I allergy. Recently, terfenadine and astemizole, which have antiallergic actions similar to those of oxatomide, showed side effects on the cardiovascular system. This might be because concomitant drugs such as itraconazole inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), the enzyme responsible for the degradation of terfenadine and astemizole, and thus the blood concentrations of the drugs are abnormally increased. In another article of this issue, we have reported that oxatomide is metabolized by CYP2D6-Val and CYP3A4, and simultaneously inhibits the metabolism of the model substrates for these enzymes. In this study, we performed the kinetic analysis of oxatomide metabolism using microsomes prepared from human liver, and found that the Km and Vmax values were 26.1 microM and 1254.4 pmol/mg protein/min, respectively. Ketoconazole, one of the representative inhibitors for CYP3A4, potently inhibited the metabolism of oxatomide, but other well-known CYP inhibitors did not show significant inhibition. These results suggest that the metabolism of oxatomide is principally catalyzed by CYP3A4. Furthermore, oxatomide inhibited the metabolism of (+/-) bufuralol and testosterone, model substrates for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, respectively, in a dose-dependent manner with the Ki values of 57.4 and 24.3 microM, respectively. These observations, together with the finding that the putative highest concentration of oxatomide in blood was congruent with 40 ng/ml ( congruent with 93 nM) at 4 h after each dosage during consecutive 6-d administration, encouraged us to conclude that oxatomide won't inhibit CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 at clinical doses.
12691726	DNA adducts in cultures of polychlorinated biphenyl-treated human hepatocytes.	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent environmental chemicals that accumulate at the apex of food chains. Several scientific committees support its designation as a human carcinogen, even though the precise mechanism of carcinogenesis remains controversial. In view of its uncertain ability to cause DNA damage in human liver, we investigated the effects of Aroclor 1254, Aroclor 1016, and 4-chlorobiphenyl (4-CB) on DNA adduct formation in cultures of primary human hepatocytes from five donors. Based on (32)P-postlabeling assays, we detected DNA adducts in native human liver as well as untreated, i.e., control cultures of human hepatocytes. Treatment of human hepatocytes with Aroclor 1016 and Aroclor 1254 resulted in four-fold (NP1) and seven-fold (butanol) increases in DNA adduct formation. Further, two and six new adduct spots were detected by multidirectional thin-layer chromatography after nuclease P1 and butanol enrichment. Treatment of human hepatocyte cultures with 4-CB led to 209 adducts per 10(9) nucleotides at the 60 microM concentration, and we show metabolically activated PCBs to be more efficient in the production of DNA-binding species compared with higher chlorinated PCB mixtures. Our study is therefore highly suggestive for a link between PCB exposure and DNA insult in human hepatocytes.
22506851	Potential role of a quetiapine metabolite in quetiapine-induced neutropenia and agranulocytosis.	Clozapine was the first of the atypical antipsychotics to be developed, but its use has been restricted because of toxicity issues, particularly the risk of potentially life-threatening drug-induced neutropenia and agranulocytosis, which occurs in about 1% of patients. Bioactivation of clozapine by peroxidases forms a reactive nitrenium ion, which covalently adducts to protein and leads to neutrophil toxicity. The current generation of clozapine-inspired atypical antipsychotics has reduced toxicity through improved potency/decreased dose or through structural modification to prevent peroxidase-catalyzed nitrenium ion formation. Through the substitution of sulfur for the bridging nitrogen found in clozapine, quetiapine does not directly form a nitrenium ion when incubated with myeloperoxidase/H(2)O(2). We present evidence that cytochrome P450 2D6 catalyzes the formation of 7-hydroxyquetiapine, which can be oxidized by human myeloperoxidase to form a reactive quinone-imine and a reactive radical, which may account for the continued, although reduced, neutrophil toxicity. In the presence of myeloperoxidase/H(2)O(2) and glutathione, covalent 7-hydroxyquetiapine-glutathione adducts were formed. Bioactivation of quetiapine was verified in vivo in rat where three 7-hydroxyquetiapine-mercaptate adducts and a 7-hydroxyquetiapine-glutathione adduct were detected from bile after oral dosing. The decreased incidence of agranulocytosis with quetiapine over clozapine is postulated to be due to the lower exposure of the toxic precursor, 7-hydroxyquetiapine versus clozapine, respectively.
12019202	Determination of drug interactions occurring with the metabolic pathways of irinotecan.	Irinotecan or CPT-11 [7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecine] is a derivative of camptothecine used in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. It requires activation to SN-38 (7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecine) by carboxylesterase. Irinotecan and SN-38 are detoxified through two major metabolic pathways: the first one leads to oxidative degradation compounds, APC [7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecine] and NPC [7-ethyl-10-(4-amino-1-piperidino)carbonyloxycamptothecine], and involves cytochrome P450 (3A4 isoform); the second one leads to SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G) and involves UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). Using human hepatic microsomes, we studied the interactions of 15 drugs of common use in colorectal cancer patients on these metabolic pathways. Only nifedipine had a significant effect on SN-38 formation, decreasing carboxylesterase activity by 50% at 100 microM and 35% at 10 microM. Three drugs had a significant effect on SN-38G formation: clonazepam increased UGT activity by 50% at 100 microM and 30% at 10 microM, and nifedipine and vinorelbine inhibited the activity by 65 and 55% at 100 microM, respectively, with no effect at 10 microM. Five drugs exerted a significant inhibition on SN-38 formation at 100 microM: clonazepam (70%), methylprednisolone (50%), nifedipine (80%), omeprazole (85%), and vinorelbine (100%). Only omeprazole and vinorelbine still exerted a significant inhibition at 10 microM (30 and 90%, respectively), whereas only vinorelbine had a significant effect at 2 and 0.5 microM (70 and 40%, respectively). In conclusion, potential clinical interactions with the metabolism of irinotecan are likely to be important for vinorelbine, which strongly inhibits irinotecan catabolism by CYP3A4 at clinically relevant concentrations, but not for the other drugs, which exert an effect at concentrations not achievable in patients.
2869058	Metabolism and urinary excretion of esmolol in humans.	The urinary excretion patterns of esmolol, a short-acting beta blocker, and its major metabolite were investigated in eight healthy men after intravenous infusion of 50, 100, 200, and 300 micrograms/kg/min of esmolol for six hours and 150 micrograms/kg/min for 24 hours. Esmolol and the metabolite concentrations in urine were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. The mean urinary recoveries of the unchanged drug were 0.64%, 0.67%, 0.69%, 0.77%, and 0.98% after the 50, 100, 150, 200, and 300 micrograms/kg/min dose, respectively. Recovery of the metabolite was independent of dose, and the overall mean recovery accounted for 73% of administered dose. The results of this study indicate that esmolol is extensively metabolized, and the extent of the metabolism is not dose related in the dosage range used. The renal route plays a very minor role in the elimination of the drug but is important for the elimination of the metabolite.
8618032	The metabolism of testosterone by dermal papilla cells cultured from human pubic and axillary hair follicles concurs with hair growth in 5 alpha-reductase deficiency.	Androgens regulate the growth of many human hair follicles, but only pubic, axillary, and scalp hair growth occur in men with 5 alpha-reductase deficiency. This suggests that 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone is the active intracellular androgen in androgen-dependent follicles, except in the axilla and pubis. Since the dermal papilla plays a major regulatory role in hair follicles and may be the site of androgen action, we have investigated androgen metabolism in six primary lines of cultured dermal papilla cells from pubic and axillary hair follicles; previous studies have shown that beard cells take up and metabolize testosterone, retaining and secreting 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone. After 24 h preincubation in serum-free Eagle's medium 199, 100-mm dishes of confluent cells were incubated for 2 h with 5 nM [1,2,6,7-3H]testosterone. Media were collected and the cells washed with phosphate-buffered saline and extracted with chloroform: methanol (2:1). After the addition of unlabeled and 14C-labeled marker steroids, the extracts were analyzed by a two-step thin-layer chromatography system; steroid identity was confirmed by recrystallization to a constant 3H/14C ratio. Beard and pubic dermal papilla cells were also incubated for 24 h, and the medium was analyzed at various times. The results from pubic and axillary primary cell lines were similar. In both cells and media the major steroid identified was testosterone, but significant amounts of androstenedione were present, indicating 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity; androstenedione was also identified within the cells, but a small amount of 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone was only identified in one pubic cell line. Beard dermal papilla cells secreted large amounts of 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone into the medium over 24 h in contrast to pubic cells, which produced only very small amounts. The pubic and axillary cell results contrasts with the observations of pronounced 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone in beard cells and confirm that androgen metabolism in cultured dermal papilla cells reflects the parent follicle's ability to respond to androgen in the absence of 5 alpha-reductase type II in vivo. This supports our hypothesis that androgen acts on hair follicles via the dermal papilla and suggests that cultured dermal papilla cells may offer an important model system for studies of androgen action.
12351144	In vitro and in vivo formation of aminophenylnorharman from norharman and aniline.	Norharman is not mutagenic to Salmonella strains, but becomes so to S. typhimurium TA98 and YG1024 with S9 mix in the presence of the non-mutagenic aromatic amine, aniline. The mutagenicity from norharman and aniline in the presence of S9 mix is reported to be due to formation of a mutagenic compound, 9-(4'-aminophenyl)-9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole (aminophenylnorharman, APNH). In the present study, we examined which enzymes might be involved in in vitro formation of APNH from norharman and aniline. When norharman (5mg) and aniline (2.5mg) were incubated with S9 mix, the S9 fraction of which was prepared from the livers of rats treated with phenobarbital (PB) and beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF), at 37 degrees C for 20 min, 496 ng of APNH was produced. Formation of APNH was also detected with the microsomal fraction, but not with the cytosol fraction. The addition of a p450 inhibitor, SKF-525A, to the reaction mixture at a dose of 5mM resulted in a decrease of APNH formation, to around 40% of the control level. These results suggest involvement of p450 enzyme(s) in the formation of APNH from norharman and aniline. Moreover, a microsomal fraction from human liver was demonstrated to have the capacity to produce APNH from norharman and aniline, similar to the case with the microsomal fraction from rat liver. When norharman (90 mg/kg) and aniline (90 mg/kg) were administered to rats by gavage, APNH could be detected in the urine, at a rate of 19.6 ng+/-16.9 ng per 24h. The level was increased by treatment of the urine samples with hydrochloric acid, suggesting some APNH was excreted into urine as conjugated forms. Thus, it is likely that APNH may be produced from norharman and aniline in the human body.
17962373	Identification of cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of the new designer drug 4'-methyl-alpha-pyrrolidinobutyrophenone.	The involvement of human hepatic cytochrome P450 (P450) isoenzymes in the metabolism of the new designer drug 4'-methyl-alpha-pyrrolidinobutyrophenone (MPBP) to 4'-(hydroxymethyl)-alpha-pyrrolidinobutyrophenone (HO-MPBP) was studied using insect cell microsomes with cDNA-expressed human P450s and human liver microsomes (HLM). Incubation samples were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Only CYP2D6, CYP2C19, and CYP1A2 were capable of catalyzing MPBP 4'-hydroxylation. According to the relative activity factor approach, these enzymes accounted for 54, 30, and 16% of net clearance. At 1 microM MPBP, the chemical inhibitors quinidine (CYP2D6), fluconazole (CYP2C19), and alpha-naphthoflavone (CYP1A2) reduced metabolite formation in pooled HLM by 83, 53, and 47%, respectively, and at 50 microM MPBP by 41, 47, and 45%, respectively. In experiments with HLM from CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers, HO-MPBP formation was found to be 78 and 79% lower in comparison with pooled HLM, respectively. From these data, it can be concluded that polymorphically expressed CYP2D6 is mainly responsible for MPBP hydroxylation.
22942319	Metabolism and pharmacokinetics of JM6 in mice: JM6 is not a prodrug for Ro-61-8048.	Understanding whether regulation of tryptophan metabolites can ameliorate neurodegeneration is of high interest to investigators. A recent publication describes 3,4-dimethoxy-N-(4-(3-nitrophenyl)-5-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)thiazol-2-yl)benzenesulfonamide (JM6) as a novel prodrug for the kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) inhibitor 3,4-dimethoxy-N-(4-(3-nitrophenyl)thiazol-2-yl)benzenesulfonamide (Ro-61-8048) that elicits therapeutic effects in mouse models of Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases (Cell 145:863-874, 2011). Our evaluation of the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of JM6 and Ro-61-8048 indicate instead that Ro-61-8048 concentrations in mouse plasma after JM6 administration originate from a Ro-61-8048 impurity (<0.1%) in JM6. After a 0.05 mg/kg Ro-61-8048 oral dose alone or coadministered with 10 mg/kg JM6 to mice, the Ro-61-8048 areas under the concentration-time curves (AUCs) from 0 to infinity were similar (4300 and 4900 nM  h, respectively), indicating no detectable contributions of JM6 metabolism to the Ro-61-8048 AUCs. JM6 was stable in incubations under acidic conditions and Ro-61-8048 was not a product of JM6 metabolism in vitro (plasma, blood, or hepatic models). Species differences in the quantitative rate of oxidative metabolism indicate that major circulating JM6 metabolite(s) in mice are unlikely to be major in humans: JM6 is rapidly metabolized via the piperidyl moiety in mouse (forming an iminium ion reactive intermediate) but is slowly metabolized in human (in vitro), primarily via O-dealkylation at the phenyl ring. Our data indicate that JM6 is not a prodrug for Ro-61-8048 and is not a potent KMO inhibitor.
19845430	Deactivation of anti-cancer drug letrozole to a carbinol metabolite by polymorphic cytochrome P450 2A6 in human liver microsomes.	Cytochromes P450 (P450) involved in letrozole metabolism were investigated. Among 13 recombinant P450 forms examined, only P450 2A6 and 3A4 showed activities in transforming letrozole to its carbinol metabolite with small K(m) and high Vmax values yielding apparent Vmax/K(m) values of 0.48 and 0.24 nl min(-1) nmol(-1) P450, respectively. The metabolic activities of individual human liver microsomes showed a significant correlation with coumarin 7-hydroxylase activities (P450 2A6 marker) at a letrozole concentration of 0.5 microM, while a good correlation was also seen with testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activities (P450 3A4 marker) at 5 microM substrate concentration with different inhibition by 8-methoxypsolaren. Significantly low carbinol-forming activities were seen in human liver microsomes from individuals possessing CYP2A6*4/*4 (whole CYP2A6 gene deletion) at a letrozole concentration of 0.5 microM. A Vmax/K(m) value measured for CYP2A6.7 (amino acid substitution type) in human liver microsomes, in the presence of anti-P450 3A4 antibodies, was approximately seven-fold smaller than that for CYP2A6.1 (wild-type). These results demonstrate that P450 2A6 and 3A4 catalyse the conversion of letrozole to its carbinol metabolite in vitro at low and high concentrations of letrozole. Polymorphic variation of CYP2A6 is considered to be relevant to inter-subject variation in therapeutic exposure of letrozole.
19159813	Preliminary evaluation of monolithic column high-performance liquid chromatography with tris(2,2'-bipyridyl)ruthenium(II) chemiluminescence detection for the determination of quetiapine in human body fluids.	High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with tris(2,2'-bipyridyl)ruthenium(II) chemiluminescence detection methodology is reported for the determination of the atypical antipsychotic drug quetiapine and the observation of its major active and inactive metabolites in human urine and serum. The method uses a monolithic chromatographic column allowing high flow rates of 3 mLmin(-1) enabling rapid quantification. Flow injection analysis (FIA) with tris(2,2'-bipyridyl)ruthenium(II) chemiluminescence detection and HPLC time of flight mass spectrometry (TOF-MS) were used for the determination of quetiapine in a pharmaceutical preparation to establish its suitability as a calibration standard. The limit of detection achieved with FIA was 2 x 10(-11) molL(-1) in simple aqueous solution. The limits of detection achieved with HPLC were 7 x 10(-8) and 2 x 10(-10) molL(-1) in urine and serum, respectively. The calibration range for FIA was between 5 x 10(-9) and 1 x 10(-6) molL(-1). The calibration ranges for HPLC were between 1 x 10(-7)-1 x 10(-4) and 1 x 10(-8)-1 x 10(-4) molL(-1) in urine and serum, respectively. The quetiapine concentrations in patient samples were found to be 3 x 10(-6) molL(-1) in urine and 7 x 10(-7) molL(-1) in serum. Without the need for preconcentration, the HPLC detection limits compared favourably with those in previously published methodologies. The metabolites were identified using HPLC-TOF-MS.
15961977	Tramadol as a new probe for cytochrome P450 2D6 phenotyping: a population study.	Polymorphic cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 activity has been shown to be a determinant of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of tramadol via hepatic phase I O -demethylation of (+)-tramadol to (+)-O-desmethyltramadol. Our objective was to investigate whether tramadol can be used as a probe for CYP2D6 phenotyping by determining the concordance between the 8-hour tramadol and 12-hour sparteine metabolic urinary ratios. Sparteine phenotyping test was carried out in 278 healthy, white subjects. At a minimum of 2 weeks later, each subject took 50 mg tramadol hydrochloride followed by 8-hour urine collection, and a venous blood sample was drawn from 276 subjects. Urine and plasma concentrations of (+/-)-tramadol and (+/-)-O-desmethyltramadol were determined. CYP2D6 genotyping was performed with regard to *3, *4, *6, and *9 alleles. There were 28 poor metabolizers of sparteine (10.1% [confidence interval, 6.8%-14.2%]). Very low recoveries of (+)-M1 were found in poor metabolizers (0.53% [range, 0.1%-1.1%]) compared with extensive metabolizers (8.7% [range, 1.7%-23.2%]). A bimodal distribution of the metabolic ratio of (-)-M1/(+)-M1 was found. The visual antimode was 2.0. This new phenotype test had only 1 misclassified subject compared with sparteine phenotyping (sensitivity and negative predictive value, 100%; specificity, 99.6%; positive predictive value, 96.6%). Of the 28 sparteine poor metabolizers, 26 were found to be genotypically poor metabolizers with regard to the inactivating mutations *3, *4, and *6. Fifty milligrams of tramadol is an alternative CYP2D6 phenotype probe by use of the 8-hour urinary ratio of (-)-M1/(+)-M1. The poor metabolizers have a metabolic ratio of 2.0 or higher.
39132	The distribution of amylobarbitone, butobarbitone, pentobarbitone and quinalbarbitone and the hydroxylated metabolites in man.	Fluid and tissue specimens collected from 30 subjects at autopsy have been assayed for their content of common sedative barbiturates and the corresponding hydroxylated metabolites by g.l.c. Where one barbiturate had been ingested an inverse relationship between lipid solubility of the drug and the distribution in fluids and tissues was observed. In most cases the liver, and in the remainder the spleen, contained the highest concentrations of barbiturate. Bile concentrations were often in excess of those in the corresponding liver. The metabolites of the four sedative barbiturates were usually present in lower amounts than the parent drugs in the fluids and tissues of most subjects but urine often contained much higher concentrations of metabolites--sometimes exceeding that of the parent drug in the liver. Administration of two or more barbiturates together did not appear to affect the distribution and metabolism of the individual drugs.
9222057	The pharmacokinetics of once-daily oral 400 mg ofloxacin in patients with peritonitis complicating continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.	Seven patients with end-stage renal disease requiring support by continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis received once-daily 400 mg oral ofloxacin for 7 days for the treatment of bacterial peritonitis. Serum and peritoneal dialysis fluid (PDF) were collected for assay throughout the course of the study and for 5 days thereafter. Ofloxacin, desmethyl ofloxacin and ofloxacin-N-oxide accumulated over the course of therapy and could still be detected in serum and PDF 5 days after the end of therapy. The mean elimination half-life of ofloxacin in serum was 32 +/- 7 h, desmethyl ofloxacin 45 +/- 26 h and for ofloxacin-N-oxide 44 +/- 15 h. The total mean recovery of ofloxacin and its metabolites from the PDF was 15.4%. This regimen results in serum and PDF concentrations likely to be effective for the treatment of infection for at least 10 days.
22373834	Tocilizumab has no clinically relevant effects on methotrexate pharmacokinetics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	To assess the effects of tocilizumab on methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate pharmacokinetics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and to explore the pharmacodynamic effect of tocilizumab on C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of inflammation. Methotrexate (10 - 25 mg) was administered orally on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43. On Day 8 patients received 10 mg/kg tocilizumab intravenously. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analyses were collected on Days 1, 15, and 43 and for pharmacodynamics (CRP) throughout the study. 90% CIs for mean effect ratios (Day 15/Day 1 and Day 43/Day 1) of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate (AUClast and Cmax) were close to or within the bioequivalence boundaries (80 - 125%). CRP normalized within 1 week after tocilizumab injection and remained within normal limits for 3 weeks. Tocilizumab and methotrexate can be administered concurrently without dosage adjustments.
18679666	Pharmacokinetics of lidocaine and its metabolite in peridural anesthesia administered to pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus.	Peridural blockade with lidocaine, bupivacaine, and fentanyl is an anesthetic procedure extensively used in obstetrics, justifying the pharmacokinetic study of these drugs during labor. To investigate the influence of the physiopathological changes of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine and its metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) in pregnant women subjected to peridural anesthesia. Ten normal pregnant women (group 1) and six pregnant women with GDM (group 2) were studied, all of them at term. The patients received 200 mg 2% lidocaine hydrochloride without a vasoconstrictor by the peridural locoregional route. Maternal blood samples were collected at predetermined times for the analysis of lidocaine and MEGX by chromatography and pharmacokinetic analysis. The median pharmacokinetic parameters of lidocaine for groups 1 and 2 (P </= 0.05), respectively, were as follows: for Cmax 879.11 and 1,145.58 ng/ml, AUC(0-infinity) 256.01 and 455.95 mug min(-1) ml(-1), Cl/f/kg 10.61 and 5.64 ml min(-1) kg(-1), and Vd/f/kg 3.26 and 2.19 L/kg. The median pharmacokinetic parameters of MEGX for groups 1 and 2 (P </= 0.05), respectively, were as follows: for Cmax 82.71 and 141.38 ng/ml, Tmax 44.71 and 193.14 min, t(1/2)alpha 7.64 and 59.77 min, alpha 0.097 and 0.012/min, and AUC(0-infinity) 29.91 and 108.23 mug min(-1) ml(-1). The present data permit us to conclude that the apparent clearance of lidocaine and MEGX was reduced in diabetic patients compared to normal women, suggesting that GDM inhibits the CYP1A2/CYP3A4 isoforms responsible for the metabolism of this drug and its metabolite.
2352143	Excretion of phenazopyridine and its metabolites in the urine of humans, rats, mice, and guinea pigs.	The metabolism of the urinary tract analgesic phenazopyridine [2,6-diamino-3-(phenylazo)pyridine; PAP] was studied in the urine of humans, rats, mice, and guinea pigs. Urinary excretion was rapid in human and guinea pig, but in the rat and mouse it was slower and there was significant fecal excretion. Metabolism of PAP was extensive in all four species, and there were marked quantitative differences in the routes of metabolism. The extent of azo bond cleavage was high in the mouse and guinea pig, moderate in the rat, and low in humans. Hydroxylation of both the phenyl and pyridyl rings of PAP was observed in all species. In the human, 5-hydroxyl PAP was the major metabolite (48.3% of the dose). It was concluded that there are marked species differences in the metabolism of PAP, and that none of the species studied resembles the human; the rat comes closest, but cannot be considered a particularly good model.
9252051	Analysis of some metabolites of organic solvents in urine by high-performance liquid chromatography with beta-cyclodextrin.	Chromatographic separation of the metabolites derived from toluene, ethylbenzene, styrene and xylene was carried out on untreated urine samples from factory workers. The elution sequence was as follows: phenylglyoxilic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-butanone, hippuric acid, o-methylhippuric acid, p-methylhippuric acid, m-methylhippuric acid, p-cresol, m-cresol and o-cresol. The stability constants (K(G)) of cresol and methylhippuric acid derivatives were evaluated. The capacity factor (k'), selectivity factor (alpha) and resolution (Rs) are described with a variety of mobile phases containing beta-cyclodextrin (beta-CD). The optimum concentration ratio of ethanol-water-acetic acid-beta-CD was determined to be 20:80:0.3:1.4%. Under these conditions, k' values of the five metabolites were 2<k'<6, and all alpha values were greater than 1.5. Simultaneous determinations of the metabolites were carried out in real urine samples from factory workers using the standard addition method. Validation of the method and the detection limit are described under the optimum conditions attained in this experiment.
9061465	Determination of haloperidol and its reduced metabolite in human plasma by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization.	A sensitive and accurate liquid chromatographic-electrospray mass spectrometric (LC-ES-MS) method for the determination of haloperidol (H) and reduced haloperidol (RH) in human plasma is presented, using chlorohaloperidol as the internal standard. A 2-ml volume of plasma was subjected to basic (NaOH) extraction, acid (HCl) back-extraction, acid wash and basic (NaOH) re-extraction. The extraction solvent was hexane-isoamyl alcohol (99:1, v/v) for the whole procedure. A Nucleosil C18 column (150 x 1 mm) was used for high-performance liquid chromatography, together with 2 mM HCOONH4-acetonitrile (55:45, v/v; pH 3.0) as the mobile phase. For each drug, four characteristic ions were monitored. Linearity was assessed in the ranges 0.1-50 and 0.25-50 ng/ml for H and RH, respectively. Recoveries were 58 and 70% and detection limits were 0.075 and 0.100 ng/ml for H and RH, respectively. Correlation coefficients were better than 0.999 for both compounds. R.S.D.s for repeatability and reproducibility at 0.25 ng/ml were 11.1 and 8.5% for H and 9.4 and 11.2% for RH, respectively. One of the main advantages of (LC-ES-MS) over other detection systems is the increase in selectivity obtained by monitoring three ions of confirmation for each of the drugs.
16620543	Validation of the Immunalysis microplate ELISA for the detection of buprenorphine and its metabolite norbuprenorphine in urine.	The purpose of this study was to validate the Immunalysis Buprenorphine Microplate enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of buprenorphine in urine samples. Sixty-nine urine samples were obtained from volunteers on the Subutex treatment program and from routine samples submitted to the laboratory for buprenorphine testing. For ELISA analysis, samples were diluted 1:10 with K(2)HPO(4) (0.1M, pH 7.0). The limit of detection was calculated as 0.5 ng/mL buprenorphine. The intra-assay and interday precision was 3.8% (n = 10) and 8.6% (n = 50) respectively at 1 ng/mL buprenorphine. At a low concentration of norbuprenorphine (1 ng/mL), the immunoassay demonstrated a cross-reactivity of 78%. A higher cross-reactivity of 116% was observed at a higher concentration of norbuprenorphine (10 ng/mL). Dihydrocodeine, codeine, tramadol, morphine, propoxyphene, methadone, and EDDP were tested at concentrations of 10 ng/mL and 10,000 ng/mL and demonstrated no cross-reactivity with the assay. For liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS), deuterated internal standard mixture, 1M acetate buffer (pH 5.0), and b-glucuronidase were added to the standards and samples, which were then incubated for 3 h at 60 degrees C. After incubation, 3 mL K(2)HPO(4) (0.1M, pH 6.0) was added and the pH altered to pH 6.0 using 1M KOH. Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were subsequently extracted by solid-phase. Twenty-one samples were confirmed positive and 48 samples were confirmed negative by LC-MS-MS. Using a cut-off value of 0.5 ng/mL buprenorphine, the immunoassay demonstrated a sensitivity and specificity of 100%.
14742145	'Open access' generic method for continuous determination of major human CYP450 probe substrates/metabolites and its application in drug metabolism studies.	1. An 'open access' generic high-performance liquid chromatography method was developed for different combination sets each containing specific cytochrome P450 probe substrate and the corresponding metabolite. Method development, optimization and validation were carried out with the following combinations: phenacetin + paracetamol + internal standard (IS, celecoxib), bufuralol + hydroxybufuralol + IS, testosterone + 6beta-hydroxytestosterone + IS, chlorzoxazone + 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone + IS, coumarin + 7-hydroxycoumarin + IS, tolbutamide + hydroxytolbutamide + IS, and diazepam + desmethyldiazepam + IS. 2. The assay procedure involved a simple one-step liquid/liquid extraction followed by reverse phase chromatography (Inertsil ODS 3V column) employing a ternary gradient system and the eluate was monitored by a photodiode array/fluorescence detector. The standard curve for each compound, in the concentration range 0.1-10 microg ml(-1), in various sets was linear (r(2)>0.99) and absolute recoveries of all analytes were >90%. The lower limit of quantification was 0.1 microg ml(-1). The intraday precision and accuracy in the measurements of quality control were <15% relative standard deviation and <15% deviation from nominal values, respectively. 3. Each combination set was tested with individual chemical inhibitors (furafylline, quinidine, ketoconazole, disulfiram, diethyldithiocarbamate, sulphaphenazole and tranylcypromine) and all analytes were well resolved. Overall, the assay is simple, uses conventional instrumentation and provides a scope to analyse all cytochrome P450 combination sets continuously. The application of the method in the cytochrome P450 liability screen of novel compounds is also presented.
18979093	Pharmacogenomics of CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP3A5 and MDR1 in Vietnam.	The aim of this study was to obtain pharmacogenetic data in a Vietnamese population on genes coding for proteins involved in the elimination of drugs currently used for the treatment of malaria and human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The main polymorphisms on the cytochrome P450 (CYP) genes, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, and the multi-drug resistance 1 gene (MDR1) were genotyped in 78 healthy Vietnamese subjects. Pharmacokinetic metrics were available for CYP2A6 (coumarin), CYP2C19 (mephenytoin), CYP2D6 (metoprolol) and CYP3As (midazolam), allowing correlations with the determined genotype. In the CYP2 family, we detected alleles CYP2A6*4 (12%) and *5 (15%); CYP2B6*4 (8%), *6 (27%); CYP2C19*2 (31%) and *3 (6%); CYP2D6*4, *5, *10 (1, 8 and 44%, respectively). In the CYP3A family, CYP3A4*1B was detected at a low frequency (2%), whereas CYP3A5 *3 was detected at a frequency of 67%. The MDR1 3435T allele was present with a prevalence of 40%. Allele proportions in our cohort were compared with those reported for other Asian populations. CYP2C19 genotypes were associated to the S-4'-OH-mephenytoin/S-mephenytoin ratio quantified in plasma 4 h after intake of 100 mg mephenytoin. While CYP2D6 genotypes were partially reflected by the alpha-OH-metroprolol/metoprolol ratio in plasma 4 h after dosing, no correlation existed between midazolam plasma concentrations 4 h post-dose and CYP3A genotypes. The Vietnamese subjects of our study cohort presented allele prevalences in drug-metabolising enzymes that were generally comparable with those reported in other Asian populations. Deviations were found for CYP2A6*4 compared to a Chinese population (12 vs. 5%, respectively; P = 0.023), CYP2A6*5 compared with a Korean population (15 vs. <1%, respectively; P < 0.0001), a Malaysian population (1%; P < 0.0001) and a Chinese population (1%; P < 0.0001); CYP2B6*6 compared with a Korean population (27 vs. 12%; P = 0.002) and a Japanese population (16%; P = 0.021). Pharmacokinetic metrics versus genotype analysis reinforces the view that the predictive value of certain globally common variants (e.g. CYP2D6 single nucleotide polymorphisms) should be evaluated in a population-specific manner.
11272292	The homocamptothecin BN 80915 is a highly potent orally active topoisomerase I poison.	BN 80915, a lead compound of the homocamptothecin (hCPT) family, has entered clinical trials. BN 80915 is a difluoro-hCPT where the six-membered alpha-hydroxylactone ring of camptothecin (CPT) is replaced by a seven-membered beta-hydroxylactone ring. Preclinical data reported here show that in spite of the modification to the crucial E-ring of CPTs, BN 80915 retains topoisomerase I poisoning activity as shown in living HT29 cells as well as in cell-free assays, where BN 80915 always performs better than SN-38 or TPT. In antiproliferative assays BN 80915 is also very potent as evidenced by IC50s values consistently lower than those of SN38 in sensitive cell lines as well as in their related multidrug-resistant lines overexpressing P-glycoprotein or multidrug resistance-associated protein. Furthermore, in human plasma, in contrast to CPT analogs, the hydrolysis of BN 80915 is slow, leading to improved plasma stability, and irreversible, thus avoiding toxicity related to the accumulation of active principle during excretion in the urinary tract. These findings may account for the good in vivo efficacy observed in PC3 xenograft experiments where BN 80915 administered orally at very low doses doubled the tumor growth delay in comparison to CPT-11 administered i.p. Altogether, these results strongly support further development of BN 80915.
21819790	Determination of tapentadol and its metabolite N-desmethyltapentadol in urine and oral fluid using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectral detection.	An analytical procedure for the determination of the new pain medication tapentadol and its main metabolite N-desmethyltapentadol (DMT), in urine and oral fluid has been developed and validated using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectral detection (LC-MS-MS). Oral fluid was collected using Quantisal devices, and drugs present were quantified using solid-phase extraction followed by LC-MS-MS. For confirmation, two transitions were monitored and one ratio determined which had to be within 20% of that of the known calibration standard. For tapentadol, 222.1 > 107 was used as the quantifying transition; 222.1 > 121 for the qualifier. For DMT, 208.1 > 107 was used for quantification; 208.1 > 121 as the qualifier. For saliva, the linear range was 10-100 ng/mL; the lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) was 10 ng/mL; the intraday precision was 3.6% (n = 6) and interday precision was 13.6% (n = 24). The recovery of tapentadol and DMT from the oral fluid collection pad was > 99%. For urine, the specimens were diluted and injected directly into the LC-MS-MS. The LLOQ was 50 ng/mL; the intraday and interday precisions were 2.1% and 4.4%, respectively, for tapentadol and 2.9% and 5.7%, respectively, for DMT. This is the first analytical procedure for tapentadol and DMT in urine and oral fluid.
23653442	Demonstration of the innate electrophilicity of 4-(3-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-2-(ethylsulfinyl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine (BETP), a small-molecule positive allosteric modulator of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor.	4-(3-(Benzyloxy)phenyl)-2-(ethylsulfinyl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine (BETP) represents a novel small-molecule activator of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R), and exhibits glucose-dependent insulin secretion in rats following i.v. (but not oral) administration. To explore the quantitative pharmacology associated with GLP-1R agonism in preclinical species, the in vivo pharmacokinetics of BETP were examined in rats after i.v. and oral dosing. Failure to detect BETP in circulation after oral administration of a 10-mg/kg dose in rats was consistent with the lack of an insulinotropic effect of orally administered BETP in this species. Likewise, systemic concentrations of BETP in the rat upon i.v. administration (1 mg/kg) were minimal (and sporadic). In vitro incubations in bovine serum albumin, plasma, and liver microsomes from rodents and humans indicated a facile degradation of BETP. Failure to detect metabolites in plasma and liver microsomal incubations in the absence of NADP was suggestive of a covalent interaction between BETP and a protein amino acid residue(s) in these matrices. Incubations of BETP with glutathione (GSH) in buffer revealed a rapid nucleophilic displacement of the ethylsulfoxide functionality by GSH to yield adduct M1, which indicated that BETP was intrinsically electrophilic. The structure of M1 was unambiguously identified by comparison of its chromatographic and mass spectral properties with an authentic standard. The GSH conjugate of BETP was also characterized in NADPH- and GSH-supplemented liver microsomes and in plasma samples from the pharmacokinetic studies. Unlike BETP, M1 was inactive as an allosteric modulator of the GLP-1R.
22065349	Qualitative studies on the metabolism and the toxicological detection of the fentanyl-derived designer drugs 3-methylfentanyl and isofentanyl in rats using liquid chromatography-linear ion trap-mass spectrometry (LC-MS(n)).	The opioid 3-methylfentanyl, a designer drug of the fentanyl type, was scheduled by the Controlled Substance Act due to its high potency and abuse potential. To overcome this regulation, isofentanyl, another designer fentanyl, was synthesized in a clandestine laboratory and seized by the German police. The aims of the presented study were to identify the phase I and phase II metabolites of 3-methylfentanyl and isofentanyl in rat urine, to identify the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes involved in their initial metabolic steps, and, finally, to test their detectability in urine. Using liquid chromatography (LC)-linear ion trap-mass spectrometry (MS(n)), nine phase I and five phase II metabolites of 3-methylfentanyl and 11 phase I and four phase II metabolites of isofentanyl could be identified. The following metabolic steps could be postulated for both drugs: N-dealkylation followed by hydroxylation of the alkyl and aryl moiety, hydroxylation of the propanamide side chain followed by oxidation to the corresponding carboxylic acid, and, finally, hydroxylation of the benzyl moiety followed by methylation. In addition, N-oxidation of isofentanyl could also be observed. All hydroxy metabolites were partly excreted as glucuronides. Using recombinant human isoenzymes, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5 were found to be involved in the initial metabolic steps. Our LC-MS(n) screening approach allowed the detection of 0.01 mg/L of 3-methylfentanyl and isofentanyl in spiked urine. However, in urine of rats after the administration of suspected recreational doses, the parent drugs could not be detected, but their common nor metabolite, which should therefore be the target for urine screening.
23583485	Inhibitory effects of gypenosides on seven human cytochrome P450 enzymes in vitro.	Among the various possible causes for drug interactions, pharmacokinetic factors such as inhibition of drug-metabolizing enzymes, especially cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, are regarded as the most frequent and clinically important. Gypenosides is widely used as functional food and over-the-counter drug in East Asia. In this study, the in vitro inhibitory effects of gypenosides on the major human CYP enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) activities in human liver microsomes were examined using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Gypenosides showed the strongest inhibition of CYP2D6, followed by CYP2C8, CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. The IC50 values were 1.61 g/mL, 20.06 g/mL, 34.76 g/mL (CYP3A4/midazolam), 46.73 g/mL (CYP3A4/testosterone), and 54.52 g/mL, respectively. Gypenosides exhibited competitive inhibition of CYP2D6 (Ki=1.18). In conclusion, Gypenosides might cause herb-drug interactions via inhibition of CYP2D6. An in vivo study is needed to examine this further.
11599601	Delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin as a marker for the ingestion of marijuana versus Marinol: results of a clinical study.	Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychologically active ingredient of the cannabis plant (marijuana), has been prepared synthetically and used as the bulk active ingredient of Marinol, which was approved by the FDA for the control of nausea and vomiting in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and as an appetite stimulant for AIDS patients. Because the natural and the synthetic THC are identical in all respects, it is impossible to determine the source of the urinary metabolite of THC, 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid (THC-COOH), in a urine specimen provided in a drug-testing program. Over the last few years there has been a need to determine whether a marijuana positive drug test is the result of the ingestion of marijuana (or a related product) or whether it results from the sole use of Marinol. We have previously proposed the use of delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV, the C3 homologue of THC) as a marker for the ingestion of marijuana (or a related product) because THCV is a natural component of most cannabis products along with THC and does not exist in Marinol. We have also reported that THCV is metabolized by human hepatocytes to 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin-9-carboxylic acid (THCV-COOH); therefore, the presence of the latter in a urine specimen would indicate that the donor must have used marijuana or a related product (with or without Marinol). In this study, we provide clinical data showing that THCV-COOH is detected in urine specimens collected from human subjects only after the ingestion of marijuana and not after the ingestion of Marinol (whether the latter is ingested orally or by smoking). Four subjects (male and female) participated in the study in a three-session, within-subject, crossover design. The sessions were conducted at one-week intervals. Each subject received, in separate sessions and in randomized order, an oral dose of Marinol (15 mg), a smoked dose of THC (16.88 mg) in a placebo marijuana cigarette, or a smoked dose of marijuana (2.11% THC and 0.12% THCV). Urine samples were collected and vital signs were monitored every 2 h for a 6-h period following drug administration. Subjects were then transported home, were given sample collection containers and logbooks, and were instructed to record at home the volume and time of every urine collection for 24 h, and once a day for the remainder of a week (6 days). Subjects were also instructed to freeze the urine samples until the next session. All urine samples were analyzed by GC-MS for THC-COOH and THCV-COOH using solid-phase extraction and derivatization procedure on RapidTrace and TBDMS as the derivative. The method had a limit of detection of 1.0 ng/mL and 1.0 ng/mL for THCV-COOH and THC-COOH, respectively.
11477317	Importance of the cytochrome P450 2D6 genotype for the drug metabolic interaction between chlorpromazine and haloperidol.	The authors studied the interactive effects of the coadministration of haloperidol and chlorpromazine on plasma concentrations of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol. The subjects were 43 Japanese male schizophrenic inpatients who were concomitantly treated with chlorpromazine before or after monotherapy with haloperidol. Coadministration of chlorpromazine produced significant increases in the plasma concentrations of haloperidol (P < 0.01) and reduced haloperidol (P < 0.001) by an average of 28.5% +/- 83.3% and 160.8% +/- 288.9%, respectively. However, there were marked interindividual variations in the interactive effects of chlorpromazine. The authors analyzed the importance of five CYP2D6 genotypes, *1/ *1, *1/ *10, *10/ *10, *1/*5, and *5/*10 on the percentage of change in plasma concentrations of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol. Patients with the CYP2D6*5 allele (n = 4) showed a significantly smaller increase in plasma concentrations of haloperidol (P < 0.05) and a slightly smaller increase in those of reduced haloperidol (P = 0.074) in response to the coadministration of chlorpromazine compared than those with the CYP2D6*1/*1 genotype (n = 8). Those with the CYP2D6*1/*1 genotype (n = 8) showed a trend toward greater increases in plasma concentrations of haloperidol than those with other genotypes (P = 0.087).
18227145	Identification of a novel glucosylsulfate conjugate as a metabolite of 3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphtho[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione (ARQ 501, beta-lapachone) in mammals.	3,4-Dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphtho[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione (ARQ 501) is a fully synthetic version of the natural product beta-lapachone, which has been isolated from the lapacho tree (Tabebuia impetiginosa or Tabebuia avellanedae) and has demonstrated promising anticancer activity. ARQ 501 formulated with hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin has successfully completed phase I clinical trials and is currently in several phase II human clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, head and neck cancer, and leiomyosarcoma. The metabolites of ARQ 501 were investigated by low-resolution and high-resolution mass spectrometry in plasma from (nu/nu) mice, rats, and humans treated with the compound. The data for one of the metabolites identified are consistent with conjugation of ARQ 501 with a glucosylsulfate moiety (m/z 241; fragment ion). Although other glucosylsulfate conjugates have been identified as metabolites of pesticides in cotton plants and in crustaceans as phase II metabolites of pyrenes, none have been previously identified in mammals. Data reported here identify a novel metabolic pathway for humans.
2058180	The disposition of [14C]-labelled benazepril HCl in normal adult volunteers after single and repeated oral dose.	1. The disposition of [14C]-labelled benazepril HCl, an ACE-inhibitor, was studied in four normal adult volunteers after a single oral dose of 20 mg and after repeated doses of 20 mg once daily for 5 days. Radioactivity was measured in plasma, urine and faeces. The prodrug ester benazepril and the pharmacologically active metabolite benazeprilat were determined quantitatively in plasma and urine by a g.c.-m.s. method. The pattern of metabolites in urine was analysed semiquantitatively by h.p.l.c.-radiometry. 2. After a single oral dose at least 37% was absorbed, as indicated by urinary recovery. The peak plasma concentration of benazepril (0.58 +/- 0.13 nmol/g (SD] was observed at 0.5h after dose, indicating rapid absorption. Peak concentrations of radioactivity (1.88 +/- 0.48 nmol/g) and of active benazeprilat (0.84 +/- 0.25 nmol/g) were observed at 1 h after dose, demonstrating rapid bioactivation. 3. The area under the plasma curve (AUC0-96 h) of total radioactivity amounted to 9.7 +/- 1.1 (nmol/g)h, 5% of which was accounted for by benazepril and about 50% by benazeprilat. 4. Over 9 days 96.8 +/- 0.5% of the dose was excreted in urine and faeces. Urinary excretion accounted for 37.0 +/- 6.0% of the dose, 80% of which was recovered in the first 8 h after dosing. 5. In urine, only 0.4% of the dose (1% of the radioactivity) was excreted as unchanged benazepril, indicating that the compound was extensively metabolized. Benazeprilat accounted for 17% of the dose (about half of the radioactivity; 0-96 h). Glucuronide conjugates of benazepril and benazeprilat constituting approximately 11% and 22% of the radioactivity (about 4% and 8% of the dose; 0-48 h) were tentatively identified. 6. Repeated oral treatment with benazepril HCl did not influence the pharmacologically relevant kinetics and disposition parameters.
15155554	Selective inhibition of CYP2B6-catalyzed bupropion hydroxylation in human liver microsomes in vitro.	Some inhibitory agents against CYP2B6 have been reported, but none of these has been extensively characterized or compared with others, as to the potency and selectivity of inhibition toward CYP2B6. The goal of this work was to find a selective and potent chemical in vitro inhibitor toward CYP2B6 using bupropion hydroxylation as a model reaction. At the initial screening of more than 30 substances, ticlopidine, triethylenethiophosphoramide (thioTEPA), metyrapone, xanthate C8, and benzylisothiocyanate displayed IC(50) values of <10 microM and were selected for a more detailed analysis. Metyrapone, xanthate C8, and benzylisothiocyanate inhibited several other cytochrome P450 activities rather effectively, some of them even more potently than CYP2B6, and consequently are unsuitable as CYP2B6-selective probes. Ticlopidine and thioTEPA were the most potent inhibitors of bupropion hydroxylation with K(i) values of 0.2 and 2.8 microM, respectively. The inhibition type of ticlopidine was found to be mixed type, with a component of mechanism-based inhibition, whereas thioTEPA inhibited CYP2B6 in a competitive manner. In addition to CYP2B6, ticlopidine also inhibited both mephenytoin 4-hydroxylation (CYP2C19) (IC(50), 2.7 microM) and dextromethorphan O-demethylation (CYP2D6) (IC(50), 4.4 microM). For thioTEPA the next sensitive P450 activity after CYP2B6 was coumarin 7-hydroxylation (IC(50), 256 microM). Thus, although both compounds proved to be relatively potent inhibitors of CYP2B6, thioTEPA was about 2 orders of magnitude more selective than ticlopidine. Thus, thioTEPA is a drug of choice when high CYP2B6 selectivity among major P450 enzymes is required. Ticlopidine is a useful alternative under a controlled experimental setup and when higher potency is needed.
22819207	Characterization of the metabolism of sibiricaxanthone F and its aglycone in vitro by high performance liquid chromatography coupled with Q-trap mass spectrometry.	To explain the low bioavailability of sibiricaxanthone F (SF) following oral administration and to predict its possible metabolites in vivo, the in vitro biotransformation of SF and its metabolic stability in intestinal bacteria (BI) were studied. The metabolism of SF and its aglycone (1,3,6-trihydroxy-2,7-dimethoxyxanthone, Xan) was characterized after incubation with human and rat liver microsomes (HLMs and RLMs). The chemical structures of the metabolites were tentatively identified on the basis of their mass profiles using high performance liquid chromatography coupled with an enhanced mass spectrometry-information dependent acquisition-enhanced product ion (EMS-IDA-EPI) scan mode on a hybrid triple quadrupole-linear ion trap mass spectrometer. The metabolic stability of SF in BI was determined using the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. As a result, five hydrolyzed metabolites (M1-M4 and Xan) were generated stepwise for SF when it was incubated with BI, whereas two demethylated products (M1 and M5) were detected for Xan in BI. The metabolic stability study of SF in BI revealed that the parent compound could be rapidly hydrolyzed by BI and that Xan, the main corresponding metabolite, increased rapidly. In RLMs and HLMs, two hydrolyzed metabolites (M2 and M3) mediated by CYP450 isoenzymes appeared for SF in the presence of an NADPH-regenerating system, whereas no metabolite was detected for Xan under the same conditions. One (M6) and three glucuronidated metabolites (M7-M9) were generated from SF and Xan, respectively, by phase II isoenzymes in liver microsomal proteins in the presence of uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA). Overall, the present study revealed that extensive first-pass elimination occurred for SF in intestinal bacteria and hepatic subcellular proteins in vitro, which could be one of the main reasons for the low bioavailability of SF; furthermore, the possible SF-related metabolites in rats and humans were elucidated to be mono-glucuronidated derivatives of Xan following oral administration of SF.
22447115	Increased expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes in human hepatocarcinoma FLC-4 cells cultured on micro-space cell culture plates.	Human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines cultured in a monolayer show negligible activities of drug-metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450s (CYPs) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). Here, we show that culture of human hepatocellular carcinoma FLC-4 cells on 24-well plates arrayed with uniform micro-sized compartments on the bottom of the plates (micro-space cell culture plates) resulted in increased expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, UGT1A1, etc.) and nuclear receptors (pregnane X receptor, constitutive androstane receptor, etc.). When cells were treated with a typical CYP3A substrate (triazolam), CYP2C9 substrate (diclofenac) or UGT1A1 substrate (SN-38), large amounts of their metabolites were detected in the medium of cells cultured on micro-space cell culture plates. The formation of metabolites from triazolam, diclofenac and SN-38 was strongly inhibited by co-treatment with a CYP3A inhibitor (ketoconazole), CYP2C9 inhibitor (sulfaphenazole) and UGT1A1 inhibitor (ketoconazole), respectively. On the other hand, formation of metabolites was not observed in the medium of cells cultured in a monolayer. Finally, the cytotoxic effect of aflatoxin B1 was more potent in cells cultured on micro-space cell culture plates than in cells cultured in a monolayer. The results suggest that FLC-4 cells cultured on micro-space cell culture plates are useful for studying drug metabolism and drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
16035375	Rate-limiting biotransformation of triamterene is mediated by CYP1A2.	Triamterene (TA), a potassium-sparing diuretic, is extensively metabolized by hydroxylation in 4'-position and subsequent conjugation by cytosolic sulfotransferases. To identify the cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) catalyzing hydroxylation of triamterene (the rate-limiting step in the formation of the sulfate ester (STA)), in vitro incubation studies were performed with human liver microsomes. Initial rates of TA hydroxylation (0 - 300 microM) were determined during a ten-minute-incubation period with liver microsomes of two donors. The role of individual CYP enzymes was determined by pre-incubation with selective inhibitors/alternative substrates. Vice versa, the effect of TA (0 - 500 microM) on 3-demethylation of caffeine (0 - 1,000 microM) was assessed. Metabolite concentrations were estimated by reversed-phase HPLC methods. TA Km values without inhibitors were 60 and 142 microM, Vmax was 177 and 220 pmol/min/mg protein, respectively. Mean inhibitor induced changes of 4'-hydroxy-TA formation were as follows: Furafylline 25 microM (CYP1A2), complete inhibition (-100%); omeprazole 250 microM (CYP1A2 inhibitor/CYP2C 19 substrate), -30%; coumarin 25 microM (CYP2A6), -11%; quinidine 25 microM (CYP2D6), -9%; ketoconazole 25 microM (CYP3A), -18%; and erythromycin 250 microM (CYP3A), -8%. In the reverse inhibition studies, TA competitively inhibited caffeine 3-demethylation with Ki values of 65 and 111 microM, respectively. 4'-hydroxylation of TA in humans appears to be mediated exclusively by CYP1A2. Inhibition or induction of CYP1A2 will change the time course of both TA and its active phase-II metabolite. The net pharmacodynamic effect of such changes is difficult to predict and needs to be evaluated in clinical studies.
20850313	Discovery of a potent tubulin polymerization inhibitor: synthesis and evaluation of water-soluble prodrugs of benzophenone analog.	Prodrugs have proven to be very useful in enhancing aqueous solubility of sparingly water-soluble drugs, thereby increasing in vivo efficacy without a need of special excipients. In vitro and in vivo evaluations of a number of amino acid prodrugs of 1, a previously identified potent tubulin polymerization inhibitor and cytotoxic against various cancer cell lines led to the discovery of 3HCl (l-valine attached) which is highly efficacious in mouse xenografts bearing human cancer. Pharmacokinetic analysis in rats revealed that compound 1 was released immediately upon administration of 3HCl intravenously, with rapid clearance of 3HCl indicating the effective cleavage of prodrug. Compound 3HCl (CKD-516) has now been progressed to phase 1 clinical trial.
17062778	Involvement of multiple cytochrome P450 and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzymes in the in vitro metabolism of muraglitazar.	Muraglitazar (Pargluva), a dual alpha/gamma peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activator, has both glucose- and lipid-lowering effects in animal models and in patients with diabetes. The human major primary metabolic pathways of muraglitazar include acylglucuronidation, aliphatic/aryl hydroxylation, and O-demethylation. This study describes the identification of human cytochrome P450 (P450) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes involved in the in vitro metabolism of muraglitazar. [(14)C]Muraglitazar was metabolized by cDNA-expressed CYP2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4, but to a very minimal extent by CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C18, 2E1, and 3A5. Inhibition of the in vitro metabolism of muraglitazar in human liver microsomes, at a clinically efficacious concentration, by chemical inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies further supported involvement of CYP2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 in its oxidation. A combination of intrinsic clearance (V(max)/K(m)) and relative concentrations of each P450 enzyme in the human liver was used to predict the contribution of CYP2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 to the formation of each primary oxidative metabolite and to the overall oxidative metabolism of muraglitazar. Glucuronidation of [(14)C]muraglitazar was catalyzed by cDNA-expressed UGT1A1, 1A3, and 1A9, but not by UGT1A6, 1A8, 1A10, 2B4, 2B7, and 2B15. The K(m) values for muraglitazar glucuronidation by the three active UGT enzymes were similar (2-4 muM). In summary, muraglitazar was metabolized by multiple P450 and UGT enzymes to form multiple metabolites. This characteristic predicts a low potential for the alteration of the pharmacokinetic parameters of muraglitazar via polymorphic drug metabolism enzymes responsible for clearance of the compound or by coadministration of drugs that inhibit or induce relevant metabolic enzymes.
9163684	Urinary mutagenicity as a biomarker in workers exposed to benzidine: correlation with urinary metabolites and urothelial DNA adducts.	Urinary mutagenicity has been used in occupational and epidemiological studies for over two decades as a cost-effective, general biomarker of exposure to genotoxic agents. However, few studies have compared urinary mutagenicity to additional biomarkers determined among low- and high-exposed groups. To address this issue, we evaluated the relationship between urinary mutagenicity and other types of biomarkers in a cross-sectional study involving 15 workers exposed to the urinary bladder carcinogen benzidine (BZ, high exposure), 15 workers exposed to BZ-dyes (low exposure), and 13 unexposed controls in Ahmedabad, India. Urinary organics were extracted by C18/methanol and evaluated for mutagenicity in the presence of S9 in the Salmonella strain YG1024, which is a frameshift strain that overproduces acetyltransferase. The results were compared to biomarker data reported recently from the same urine samples (Rothman et al., Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 93, 5084-5089, 1996) that included a metabolite biomarker (the sum of the urinary levels of BZ + N-acetylbenzidine + N,N'-diacetylbenzidine) and a DNA adduct biomarker [a presumptive N-(3'-phosphodeoxyguanosin-8-yl)-N'-acetylbenzidine (C8dG-ABZ) DNA adduct in exfoliated urothelial cells]. The mean +/- SE urinary mutagenicity (revertants/micromol of creatinine) of the low-exposure (BZ-dye) workers was 8.2 +/- 2.4, which was significantly different from the mean of the controls (2.8 +/- 0.7, P = 0.04) as was that of the mean of the high-exposure (BZ) workers (123.2 +/- 26.1, P < 0.0001). Urinary mutagenicity showed strong, positive correlations with urinary metabolites (r = 0.88, P < 0.0001) and the level of the presumptive C8dG-ABZ urothelial DNA adduct (r = 0.59, P = 0.0006). A strong association was found between tobacco use (bidi smoking) and urinary mutagenicity among the controls (r = 0.68, P = 0.01) but not among the exposed workers (r = 0.18, P = 0.11). This study confirms the ability of a biomarker such as urinary mutagenicity to detect low-dose exposures, identify additional genotoxic exposures among the controls, and correlate strongly with urinary metabolites and DNA adducts in the target tissue (urinary bladder epithelia) in humans.
11170506	Metabolism of ochratoxin A: absence of formation of genotoxic derivatives by human and rat enzymes.	Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a potent renal carcinogen in male rats, although its mode of carcinogenicity is not known. The metabolism and covalent binding of OTA to DNA were investigated in vitro with cytochromes P450, glutathione S-transferases, prostaglandin H-synthase, and horseradish peroxidase. Incubation of OTA with rat or human liver microsomes fortified with NADPH resulted in formation of 4-(R)-hydroxyochratoxin A at low rates [10-25 pmol min(-1) (mg of protein)(-1)]. There was no evidence of OTA metabolism and glutathione conjugate formation with rat, mouse, or human kidney microsomes or postmitochondrial supernatants (S-9) [<5 pmol min(-1) (mg of protein)(-1)]. Recombinant human cytochromes P450 (P450) 1A1 and 3A4 formed 4-(R)-hydroxyochratoxin A at low rates [0.08 and 0.06 pmol min(-1) (pmol of P450)(-1), respectively]; no oxidation products of OTA were detected with recombinant human P450 1A2 or 2E1 or rat P450 1A2 or 2C11 [<0.02 pmol min(-1) (pmol of P450)(-1)]. Prostaglandin H-synthase produced small amounts of an apolar product [33 pmol min(-1) (mg of protein)(-1)], and OTA products were not formed with horseradish peroxidase. There was no evidence of DNA adduct formation when [(3)H]OTA was incubated with these enzyme systems in the presence of calf thymus DNA (<20 adducts/10(9) DNA bases); however, these enzymes catalyzed DNA adduct formation with the genotoxins aflatoxin B(1), 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline, benzo[a]pyrene, and pentachlorophenol. There was also no detectable [(3)H]OTA bound in vivo to kidney DNA of male Fischer-344 rats treated orally with [(3)H]OTA (1 mg/kg, 100 mCi/mmol, 24 h exposure, <2.7 adducts/10(9) DNA bases), based upon liquid scintillation counting. However, (32)P-postlabeling experiments did show evidence of DNA lesions with total adduct levels ranging from 31 to 71 adducts/10(9) DNA bases, while adducts in untreated rat kidney ranged from 6 to 24 adducts/10(9) DNA bases. These results do not support the premise that OTA or metabolically activated species covalently bind to DNA and suggest that the (32)P-postlabeled lesions are due to products derived from OTA-mediated cytotoxicity.
15935801	Occupational exposure to benzene in South Korea.	Benzene has been used in various industries as glues or solvents in Korea. Since 1981, a preparation containing more than 1% benzene is not allowed to be manufactured, used or dealt with in the workplace, except in laboratories and in those situations benzene must be used in a completely sealed process as specified in Industrial Safety and Health Act (ISHA). Claims for compensation of hematopoietic diseases related to benzene have been rising even though the work environment has been improved. This study was conducted to assess the status of benzene exposure in different industries in Korea. We reviewed the claimed cases investigated by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) between 1992 and 2000. The Survey of National Work Environment Status in 1998 was analyzed to assume the number of workers and factories exposed to benzene. In 2000, six factories were investigated to evaluate benzene exposure. Personal air monitoring was performed in 61 workers and urine samples were collected from 57 workers to measure trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA). Hematologic examination has performed. Thirty-four cases of hematopoietic diseases were investigated by KOSHA including eight cases of myelodysplastic syndrome and eight cases of acute myelocytic leukemia. Eight cases were accepted as related to benzene exposure. The number of workers possibly exposed to benzene can be estimated to be 196,182 workers from 6219 factories based on the database. The geometric mean of benzene in air was 0.094 (0.005-5.311) ppm. Seven samples were higher than 1 ppm but they did not go over the 10 ppm occupational exposure limit (OEL) value in Korea. The geometric mean of trans,trans-muconic acid in urine was 0.966 (0.24-2.74) mg/g creatinine. The benzene exposure level was low except in a factory where benzene was used to polymerize other chemicals. The ambient benzene from 0.1 to 1 ppm was significantly correlated with urine t,t-MA concentration (r=0.733, p<0.01). Hematologic parameters did not show significant difference among groups divided into the level of exposure. Korean workers were not highly exposed to benzene and the level of exposure was mostly less than 1 ppm. However, there might be an excessive risk of hematopoietic disorders due to relatively high past exposure. The OEL value of benzene was amended to 1 ppm from 10 ppm in 2002 and was effective since July 2003.
17109214	Involvement of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases in the extensive liver and intestinal first-pass metabolism of flavonoid baicalein.	The present study aims to investigate the involvement of UDP-glucuronosyltranferase (UGT) in the extensive liver and intestinal first-pass glucuronidation of baicalein (B) in both rats and humans and also to study sulfation and P450 mediated hydroxylation of B. B was incubated with liver and intestine microsome, cytosol, S9 fractions from human, rat and various human recombinant UGT isozymes, respectively. The generated metabolites were identified by HPLC/MS/MS and quantified by HPLC/UV. Three metabolites of B namely baicalein 7-O-glucuronide (BG), the isomer of baicalein 7-O-glucuronide (BG'), and baicalein sulfate were found. BG, the predominant metabolite of B, was extensively generated in liver and jejunum microsomes in both humans and rats. Its formation was mainly catalyzed by UGT 1A9 and also mediated by UGT 1A1, 1A3, 1A8, 1A7 and 2B15 with different kinetic profiles. UGT 1A8 mediated formation of BG' was mainly found in human intestine and rat liver microsomes. Sulfation and P450 mediated hydroxylation of B were much less significant than glucuronidation. Extensive liver and intestinal first-pass glucuronidation of B were found in both humans and rats. Under the current experimental conditions, UGT 1A9 and UGT 1A8 demonstrated the fastest formation rate of BG in human liver preparations and BG' in human intestine preparations, respectively.
19350451	Characterization of human cytochrome P450 isoforms involved in the metabolism of 7-epi-paclitaxel.	The C-7 chiral centre in paclitaxel is subject to epimerization under physiological conditions, thus making 7-epi-paclitaxel as the principal degradant. This study was designed to characterize the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes involved in 7-epi-paclitaxel metabolism, and to examine possible metabolic interactions that this C-7 epimer may have with paclitaxel. In human liver microsomes, 7-epi-paclitaxel was oxidized to two monohydroxylated metabolites while the metabolic sites occurred at the C-13 side-chain for M-1 and taxane core ring for M-2. A combination of correlation analysis, chemical inhibition studies, assays with recombinant CYPs, and enzyme kinetics indicated that M-1 was generated predominantly by CYP3A4 and M-2 by CYP2C8. Co-incubation of 7-epi-paclitaxel with paclitaxel in human liver microsomes resulted in potent inhibition of 6alpha-hydroxypaclitaxel formation (IC((50)) = 2.1 +/- 0.2 muM), thus decreasing the metabolic elimination of paclitaxel. In conclusion, both CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 play a major role in biotransformation of 7-epi-paclitaxel in human liver microsomes. The existence of epimeric interactions between paclitaxel and its degradant might be a noteworthy factor resulting in the complex pharmacokinetic profile of paclitaxel.
23132334	In vitro investigations into the roles of drug transporters and metabolizing enzymes in the disposition and drug interactions of dolutegravir, a HIV integrase inhibitor.	Dolutegravir (DTG; S/GSK1349572) is a potent HIV-1 integrase inhibitor with a distinct resistance profile and a once-daily dose regimen that does not require pharmacokinetic boosting. This work investigated the in vitro drug transport and metabolism of DTG and assessed the potential for clinical drug-drug interactions. DTG is a substrate for the efflux transporters P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and human breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Its high intrinsic membrane permeability limits the impact these transporters have on DTG's intestinal absorption. UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 is the main enzyme responsible for the metabolism of DTG in vivo, with cytochrome P450 (P450) 3A4 being a notable pathway and UGT1A3 and UGT1A9 being only minor pathways. DTG demonstrated little or no inhibition (IC(50) values > 30 M) in vitro of the transporters Pgp, BCRP, multidrug resistance protein 2, organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1/3, organic cation transporter (OCT) 1, or the drug metabolizing enzymes CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A4, UGT1A1, or 2B7. Further, DTG did not induce CYP1A2, 2B6, or 3A4 mRNA in vitro using human hepatocytes. DTG does inhibit the renal OCT2 (IC(50) = 1.9 M) transporter, which provides a mechanistic basis for the mild increases in serum creatinine observed in clinical studies. These in vitro studies demonstrate a low propensity for DTG to be a perpetrator of clinical drug interactions and provide a basis for predicting when other drugs could result in a drug interaction with DTG.
20739453	Human pregnane X receptor agonism by Ginkgo biloba extract: assessment of the role of individual ginkgolides.	Ginkgo biloba extract activates pregnane X receptor (PXR), but how this occurs is not known. Therefore, we investigated the mechanism of PXR activation by the extract and the role of five individual terpene trilactones in the activation. In a cell-based reporter gene assay, G. biloba extract activated human PXR (hPXR), and at a concentration present in the extract, ginkgolide A, but not ginkgolide B, ginkgolide C, ginkgolide J, or bilobalide was partially responsible for the increase in hPXR activity of the extract. Likewise, in cultured human hepatocytes, only ginkgolide A contributed to the increase in hPXR target gene expression (CYP3A4 mRNA and CYP3A-mediated testosterone 6-hydroxylation). The extract, but none of the terpene trilactones, bound to hPXR ligand-binding domain, as analyzed by a time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer competitive binding assay. Only the extract and ginkgolide A recruited steroid receptor coactivator-1, as determined by a mammalian two-hybrid assay. Compared with hPXR, rat PXR (rPXR) was activated to a lesser extent by G. biloba extract. Similar to hPXR, only ginkgolide A contributed to rPXR activation by the extract. In contrast to the effect of G. biloba extract on PXR function, it did not affect hPXR expression. Overall, the main conclusions are that G. biloba extract is an hPXR agonist, and among the five terpene trilactones investigated, only ginkgolide A contributes to the actions of the extract. Our findings provide insights into the biological and chemical mechanisms of hPXR activation by G. biloba extract.
8541234	Testosterone metabolism in primary cultures of human prostate epithelial cells and fibroblasts.	We compare testosterone (T) metabolism in primary cultures of epithelial cells and fibroblasts separated from benign prostate hypertrophy (BPH) and prostate cancer tissues. In all cultures, androstenedione (delta 4) formed by oxidation of T by 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) represented 80% of the metabolites recovered. The amounts of 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), formed by reduction of T by 5 alpha-reductase (5 alpha-R), were small: 5 and 2% (BPH) and 8 and 15% (adenocarcinoma) for epithelial cells and fibroblasts, respectively. Northern blot analysis of total RNA from epithelial cells (BPH or adenocarcinoma) attributed the reductive activity to the 5 alpha-reductase type 1 isozyme and oxidative activity to the 17 beta-HSD type 2. In cancer fibroblasts, only little 17 beta-HSD type 2 mRNA was detected. The 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors, 4-MA (17 beta-(N,N-diethyl)carbamoyl-4-methyl-4-aza-5 alpha-androstan-3-one) and finasteride, inhibited DHT formation with a preferential action of 4-MA on epithelial cells (BPH or adenocarcinoma) and of finasteride on fibroblasts from adenocarcinoma. Neither inhibitor acted on delta 4 formation. On the other hand, the lipido-sterol extract of Serenoa repens (LSESr, Permixon) inhibited the formation of all the T metabolites studied [IC50 S = 40 and 200 micrograms/ml (BPH) and 90 and 70 micrograms/ml (adenocarcinoma) in epithelial cells and fibroblasts, respectively]. These results have important therapeutic implications when selecting appropriate treatment options for BPH.
18809479	Intestinal first-pass glucuronidation activities of selected dihydroxyflavones.	Flavonoids have low bioavailabilities due to extensive intestinal first-pass metabolisms, especially glucuronidation. The present study aimed to evaluate the intestinal glucuronidation of dihydroxyflavones and provide more information on their structure-activity relationships. Seven dihydroxyflavones, namely 3,7-, 5,7-, 6,7-, 7,8-, 2',7-, 3',7-, and 4',7-dihydroxyflavone and a monohydroxyflavone, 7-hydroxyflavone, were investigated by incubating each hydroxyflavone at various concentrations with either human jejunum microsome or rat intestinal microsome. Two mono-glucuronides were identified for each dihydroxyflavone. For human jejunum microsome, most of the studied dihydroxyflavones demonstrated greater glucuronidation activities than that of 7-hydroxyflavone except for 3,7-dihydroxyflavone and 4',7-dihydroxyflavone. 3',7-dihydroxyflavone had the greatest intrinsic clearance which was at least seven times greater than that of all other dihydroxyflavones. In addition, species difference in glucuronidation activity was observed with human jejunum microsome higher than rat intestinal microsome for all hydroxyflavones except for 3,7-dihydroxyflavone. The results further demonstrated that the hydroxyl group positions do affect the intestinal glucuronidation activity of hydroxyflavones. Increasing the number of hydroxyl groups on A- or B-ring (except for 4'-OH) would enhance the glucuronidation activity of flavones, whereas adding a 3-OH on C-ring might not. Furthermore, existence of hydroxyl group at 3' position may enhance the glucuronidation activity of flavonoids.
20109300	Urine drug testing of chronic pain patients. II. Prevalence patterns of prescription opiates and metabolites.	This study of 20,089 urine specimens from chronic pain patients provided a unique opportunity to evaluate the prevalence of prescription opiates and metabolites, assess the usefulness of inclusion of normetabolites in the test panel, and compare opiate and oxycodone screening results to liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) results. All specimens were screened by an opiate [enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), 100 ng/mL] and oxycodone assay [ELISA, 100 ng/mL or enzyme immunoassay (EIA), 50 ng/mL] and simultaneously tested by LC-MS-MS [limit of quantitation (LOQ) = 50 ng/mL] for 10 opiate analytes (codeine, norcodeine, morphine, hydrocodone, dihydrocodeine, norhydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, noroxycodone, and oxymorphone). Approximately two-thirds of the specimens were positive for one or more opiate analytes. The number of analytes detected in each specimen varied from 1 to 8 with 3 (34.8%) being most prevalent. Hydrocodone and oxycodone (in combination with metabolites) were most prevalent followed by morphine. Norcodeine was only infrequently detected whereas the prevalence of norhydrocodone and noroxycodone was approximately equal to the prevalence of the parent drug. A substantial number of specimens were identified that contained norhydrocodone (n = 943) or noroxycodone (n = 702) but not the parent drug, thereby establishing their interpretative value as biomarkers of parent drug use. Comparison of the two oxycodone screening assays revealed that the oxycodone ELISA had broader cross-reactivity with opiate analytes, and the oxycodone EIA was more specific for oxycodone. Specimens containing only norhydrocodone were best detected with the opiate ELISA whereas noroxycodone (only) specimens were best detected by the oxycodone EIA.
19648066	Quantitation of Irinotecan and its two major metabolites using a liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometric.	A sensitive and selective liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) method for the determination of Irinotecan (CPT-11) and its metabolites in human plasma has been developed. Samples were prepared after protein precipitation and analyzed on a C(18) column interfaced with a Q-Trap tandem mass spectrometer. Positive electrospray ionization was employed as the ionization source. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile-water (0.05% formic acid), using gradient procedure. The analytes and internal standard camptothecin were both detected by use of multiple reaction monitoring mode. The method was linear in the concentration range of 10.0-2000.0ng/ml for CPT-11 and 0.5-200.0ng/ml for 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), respectively. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 10ng/ml for CPT-11 and 0.5ng/ml for SN-38. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviation across three validation runs over the entire concentration range was less than 10.6%. The accuracy determined at three concentrations was within +/-11.4% in terms of relative error. Due to the unavailability of standard for 7-ethyl-10-O-glucuronyl-camptothecin (SN-38G) and the importance of knowing the concentration of this metabolite, we developed a method for analysis SN-38G by taking advantage of the quantitive conversion of SN-38G to SN-38 using glucuronidase. This enzymatic method of identification and quantitation of gluconated compound can be widely used when the standard for phase II glucuronide metabolites are not available.
17907785	NADPH-dependent covalent binding of [3H]paroxetine to human liver microsomes and S-9 fractions: identification of an electrophilic quinone metabolite of paroxetine.	The primary pathway of clearance of the methylenedioxyphenyl-containing compound and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine in humans involves P450 2D6-mediated demethylenation to a catechol intermediate. The process of demethylenation also results in the mechanism-based inactivation of the P450 isozyme. While the link between P450 2D6 inactivation and pharmacokinetic interactions of paroxetine with P450 2D6 substrates has been firmly established, there is a disconnect in terms of paroxetine's excellent safety record despite the potential for bioactivation. In the present study, we have systematically assessed the NADPH-dependent covalent binding of [(3)H]paroxetine to human liver microsomes and S-9 preparations in the absence and presence of cofactors of the various phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes involved in the downstream metabolism/detoxification of the putative paroxetine-catechol intermediate. Incubation of [(3)H]paroxetine with human liver microsomes and S-9 preparations resulted in irreversible binding of radioactive material to macromolecules by a process that was NADPH-dependent. The addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) to the microsomal and S-9 incubations resulted in a dramatic reduction of covalent binding. Following incubations with NADPH- and GSH-supplemented human liver microsomes and S-9, three sulfydryl conjugates with MH(+) ions at 623 Da (GS1), 779 Da (GS2), and 928 Da (GS3), respectively, were detected by LC-MS/MS. The collision-induced dissociation spectra allowed an insight into the structure of the GSH conjugates, based on which, bioactivation pathways were proposed. The formation of GS 1 was consistent with Michael addition of GSH to the quinone derived from two-electron oxidation of paroxetine-catechol. GS 3 was formed by the addition of a second molecule of GSH to the quinone species obtained via the two-electron oxidation of GS 1. The mechanism of formation of GS 2 can be rationalized via (i) further two-electron oxidation of the catechol motif in GS 3 to the ortho-quinone, (ii) loss of a glutamic acid residue from one of the adducted GSH molecules, and (iii) condensation of a cysteine-NH 2 with an adjacent carbonyl of the ortho-quinone to yield an ortho-benzoquinoneimine structure. Inclusion of the catechol-O-methyltransferase cofactor S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) in S-9 incubations also dramatically reduced the covalent binding of [(3)H]paroxetine, a finding that was consistent with O-methylation of the paroxetine-catechol metabolite to the corresponding guaiacol regioisomers in S-9 incubations. While the NADPH-dependent covalent binding was attenuated by GSH and SAM, these reagents did not alter paroxetine's ability to inactivate P450 2D6, suggesting that the reactive intermediate responsible for P450 inactivation did not leave the active site to react with other proteins. The results of our studies indicate that in addition to the low once-a-day dosing regimen (20 mg) of paroxetine, efficient scavenging of the catechol and quinone metabolites by SAM and GSH, respectively, serves as an explanation for the excellent safety record of paroxetine despite the fact that it undergoes bioactivation.
3768493	Characterization of two metabolites of prethcamide by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry.	Crotethamide and cropropamide, both components of the respiratory stimulant prethcamide, are metabolized in humans by demethylation of the [(dimethylamino)-carbonyl]-propyl moiety. The resulting metabolites are characterized by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of urinary extracts. The use of HCl to prevent losses by volatilization during the evaporation step, combined with methanol as solvent, complicates gas liquid chromatographic analysis of prethcamide. The resulting artifacts are identified.
19273530	Metabolic disposition of [14C]bazedoxifene in healthy postmenopausal women.	Bazedoxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator under development for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. The disposition of [(14)C]bazedoxifene was determined in six healthy postmenopausal women after administration of a single oral dose of 20 mg (200 microCi). After dosing, blood was collected at frequent intervals, and urine and fecal samples were collected for up to 10 days. Aliquots of plasma, blood, urine, and fecal homogenates were analyzed for concentrations of radioactivity. Bazedoxifene metabolite profiles in plasma and feces were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with radioactivity flow detection; metabolite structures were confirmed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Bazedoxifene was rapidly absorbed, exhibiting a mean peak plasma concentration of 3.43 ng/ml at 1.2 h postdose. The total mean recovery of the radioactive dose in excreta was 85.6%, with the majority recovered in feces (84.7%) and only a small fraction (0.81%) in urine. Radiochromatograms of plasma revealed that glucuronidation was the major metabolic pathway; little or no cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism was evident. The majority of circulating radioactivity was constituted by metabolites, with bazedoxifene-5-glucuronide being the predominant metabolite (up to 95%). Bazedoxifene-4'-glucuronide was a minor metabolite (up to 20%), and unchanged bazedoxifene represented 0 to 13% of the radioactivity in most plasma samples. Unchanged bazedoxifene was the major radioactive component in feces, however, reflecting unabsorbed drug and/or glucuronides that were hydrolyzed by intestinal bacterial enzymes. [(14)C]Bazedoxifene was generally well tolerated. These findings demonstrated that, after oral administration in healthy postmenopausal women, bazedoxifene was rapidly absorbed, metabolized via glucuronidation, and excreted predominantly in feces.
18218784	Effect of itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics of imidafenacin in healthy subjects.	The effect of itraconazole, a potent inhibitor of the CYP3A isoenzyme family, on the pharmacokinetics of imidafenacin, a novel synthetic muscarinic receptor antagonist, was investigated. Twelve healthy subjects participated in this open-label, self-controlled study. In period I, subjects received a single oral dose of 0.1 mg imidafenacin. In period II, they received multiple oral doses of 200 mg itraconazole for 9 days and a single oral dose of 0.1 mg imidafenacin on day 8. Plasma concentrations of imidafenacin and M-2, the major metabolite of imidafenacin metabolized by CYP3A4, were determined. Analytes were measured by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Following coadministration with itraconazole, the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) of imidafenacin increased 1.32-fold (90% confidence intervals [CIs]: 1.12-1.56), and the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity (AUC(0-infinity)) increased 1.78-fold (90% CI: 1.47-2.16). In conclusion, itraconazole increases the plasma concentrations of imidafenacin by inhibiting CYP3A4. Therefore, itraconazole or potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be carefully added to imidafenacin drug regimens.
7795785	Determination of metyrapone and the enantiomers of its chiral metabolite metyrapol in human plasma and urine using coupled achiral-chiral liquid chromatography.	A coupled achiral-chiral liquid chromatographic assay has been developed to determine the concentrations of metyrapone and the enantiomers of its chiral metabolite metyrapol in plasma and urine. The chromatographic system consisted of a silica precolumn (75 x 4.6 mm I.D.) coupled in-line to a 250 x 4.6 mm I.D. column containing cellulose tris(4-methylbenzoate) coated on silica gel (Chiralcel OJ-CSP). When plasma samples were analyzed, the mobile phase was hexane-ethanol (92:8, v/v) modified with 0.1% diethylamine and when urine samples were analyzed the mobile phase was hexane-ethanol (94:6, v/v) modified with 0.2% diethylamine. Under these chromatographic conditions the chromatographic retentions [expressed as capacity factors (k')] for metyrapone were k' = 2.35 (plasma) and 2.52 (urine); for (-)-metyrapol k' = 4.22 (plasma) and 4.62 (urine); for (+)-metyrapone k' = 5.16 (plasma) and 5.86 (urine); enantioselectivities (alpha) were 1.09 (plasma) and 1.13 (urine). The assay has been validated for use in metabolic studies. The analyses of plasma and urine samples from one subject following oral administration of 750 mg of metyrapone indicated that the enzymatic reduction of myterapone by aldo-keto reductase was enantiospecific.
18362158	The "albumin effect" and drug glucuronidation: bovine serum albumin and fatty acid-free human serum albumin enhance the glucuronidation of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A9 substrates but not UGT1A1 and UGT1A6 activities.	Bovine serum albumin (BSA) and fatty acid-free human serum albumin (HSAFAF) reduce the K(m) values for UGT2B7 substrates by sequestering inhibitory long-chain fatty acids released by incubations of human liver microsomes (HLM) and HEK293 cells expressing this enzyme. However, the scope of the "albumin effect" is unknown. In this investigation we characterized the effects of albumin on the kinetics of 4-methylumbelliferone (4MU) glucuronidation by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1, 1A6, and 1A9, and propofol (PRO) glucuronidation by UGT1A9 and HLM. BSA and HSAFAF, but not human serum albumin, reduced the K(m) values for 4MU and PRO glucuronidation by UGT1A9. For example, HSAFAF (2%) reduced the K(m) values for 4MU and PRO glucuronidation from 13.4 to 2.9 and 41 to 7.2 microM, respectively. Similarly, HSAFAF (2%) reduced the K(m) for PRO glucuronidation by HLM from 127 to 10.6 muM. Arachidonic, linoleic, and oleic acids and a mixture of these decreased the rates of 4MU and PRO glucuronidation by UGT1A9. K(m) values for these reactions were increased 3- to 6-fold by the fatty acid mixture. Inhibition was reversed by the addition of BSA (2%). Extrapolation of kinetic constants for PRO glucuronidation by HLM in the presence of HSAFAF predicted in vivo hepatic clearance within 15%. Fatty acids had no effect on 4MU glucuronidation by UGT1A1 and UGT1A6 but, paradoxically, all forms of albumin altered the kinetic model for 4MU glucuronidation by UGT1A6 (from Michaelis-Menten to two-site). Only BSA caused a similar effect on 4MU glucuronidation by UGT1A1. It is concluded that BSA and HSAFAF reduce the K(m) values of only those enzymes inhibited by long-chain unsaturated fatty acids.
22983304	Metabolic chiral inversion of brivanib and its relevance to safety and pharmacology.	Brivanib alaninate is an orally administered alanine prodrug of brivanib, a dual inhibitor of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling pathways. It is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer. Brivanib has a single asymmetric center derived from a secondary alcohol. The potential for chiral inversion was investigated in incubations with liver subcellular fractions and in animals and humans after oral doses of brivanib alaninate. Incubations of [C]brivanib alaninate with liver microsomes and cytosols from rats, monkeys, and humans followed by chiral chromatography resulted in two radioactive peaks, corresponding to brivanib and its enantiomer. The percentage of the enantiomeric metabolite relative to brivanib in microsomal and cytosolic incubations of different species in the presence of NADPH ranged from 11.6 to 15.8 and 0.8 to 3.1%, respectively. The proposed mechanism of inversion involves the oxidation of brivanib to a ketone metabolite, which is subsequently reduced to brivanib and its enantiomer. After oral doses of brivanib alaninate to rats and monkeys, the enantiomeric metabolite was a prominent drug-related component in plasma, with the percentages of area under the curve (AUC) at 94.7 and 39.7%, respectively, relative to brivanib. In humans, the enantiomeric metabolite was a minor circulating component, with the AUC <3% of brivanib. Pharmacological studies indicated that brivanib and its enantiomer had similar potency toward the inhibition of VEGF receptor-2 and FGF receptor-1 kinases. Because of low plasma concentration in humans, the enantiomeric metabolite was not expected to contribute significantly to target-related pharmacology of brivanib. Moreover, adequate exposure in the toxicology species suggested no specific safety concerns with respect to exposure to the enantiomeric metabolite.
11267709	The in vivo dermal absorption and metabolism of [4-14C] coumarin by rats and by human volunteers under simulated conditions of use in fragrances.	The disposition and metabolic fate of [4-14C]coumarin in a 70% aqueous ethanol solution was studied in male Lister Hooded rats after occluded dermal application and in three male volunteers after an exposure designed to simulate that which may be encountered when using an alcohol-based perfumed product. In both cases, the 6-h exposure was 0.02 mg/cm(2) (rats 0.023 mg/kg and humans 0.77 mg/kg). In both, coumarin was quickly absorbed, distributed and excreted in urine and feces, although fecal excretion of coumarin in humans was only 1% of the applied dose as opposed to 21% in rats. Total absorption was 72% of the applied dose with rats and 60% with humans. Peak plasma radioactivity in both was at 1 h. The mean plasma half-life of coumarin and metabolites was approximately 1.7 h for humans and 5 h for rats. In humans, coumarin was primarily metabolized to and excreted in urine as 7-hydroxycoumarin glucuronide and 7-hydroxycoumarin sulfate. Small amounts of unconjugated 7-hydroxycoumarin and o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (o-HPAA) were also excreted. In rats, about twenty metabolites were present, but only o-HPAA was identified. These studies show the rat is a very poor model for humans and toxicity in the rat cannot be extrapolated to humans.
15128047	Effects of CYP2C9 polymorphisms on the pharmacokinetics of R- and S-phenprocoumon in healthy volunteers.	CYP2C9 catalyses the biotransformation of the oral anticoagulants S-warfarin and R- and S-acenocoumarol. According to data obtained in vitro, phenprocoumon is also metabolized by CYP2C9 but the impact of the CYP2C9 polymorphism on phenprocoumon pharmacokinetics has not been studied. Twenty-six healthy heterozygous and homozygous carriers of the CYP2C9 alleles *1 (wild-type), *2 (Arg144Cys), and *3 (Ile359Leu) received a single oral dose of 12 mg of racemic phenprocoumon. Plasma and 12 h urine concentrations of both enantiomers and their monohydroxylated metabolites were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry detection. No significant effect of the CYP2C9 variants *2 and *3 on R-phenprocoumon pharmacokinetic parameters was detected, but S-phenprocoumon clearance tended to decrease with increasing number of CYP2C9*2 and *3 alleles. The ratios of S- to R-phenprocoumon plasma clearances were higher with a median of 0.95 in carriers of *1/*1 versus 0.65 in *3/*3 (P < 0.001 for trend). Plasma and urine concentrations of 4'-, 6- and 7-hydroxyphenprocoumon were significantly lower in homozygous carriers of the CYP2C9*2 and *3 variants compared to CYP2C9*1/*1. Carriers of CYP2C9*3/*3 had a median AUC of (R,S) 7-OH-phenprocoumon of only approximately 25% compared to the wild-type genotype. The AUC of (R,S) 6-OH-phenprocoumon was only approximately 50% in CYP2C9*3/*3 compared to the homozygous wild-type genotype. In conclusion, carriers of CYP2C9*2 and *3 alleles had a lower metabolic capacity regarding phenprocoumon hydroxylation than those with CYP2C9*1/*1. However, regarding phenprocoumon hydroxylation CYP2C9 genotypes had only marginal effects on S- and R-phenprocoumon total clearance in healthy volunteers.
12191893	BIOMarkers for occupational diesel exhaust exposure monitoring (BIOMODEM)--a study in underground mining.	Methods for the assessment of exposures to diesel exhaust were evaluated, including various biomarkers of internal exposure and early biological effects. The impact of possible biomarkers of susceptibility was also explored. Underground workers (drivers of diesel-powered excavators) at an oil shale mine in Estonia were compared with surface workers. Personal exposures to particle-associated 1-nitropyrene (NP) were some eight times higher underground than on the surface. Underground miners were also occupationally exposed to benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, as indicated by excretion of urinary metabolites of benzene and pyrene. In addition, increased O(6)-alkylguanine DNA adducts were detected in the white blood cells of underground workers, suggesting higher exposure to nitroso-compounds. However, no differences between underground and surface workers were observed in the levels of other bulky DNA adducts determined by 32P-postlabelling, or in DNA damage. The study indicated that smoking, diet and residential indoor air pollution are important non-occupational factors to consider when interpreting biomonitoring results.
21870878	Inhalation by design: novel tertiary amine muscarinic M receptor antagonists with slow off-rate binding kinetics for inhaled once-daily treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	A novel tertiary amine series of potent muscarinic M(3) receptor antagonists are described that exhibit potential as inhaled long-acting bronchodilators for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Geminal dimethyl functionality present in this series of compounds confers very long dissociative half-life (slow off-rate) from the M(3) receptor that mediates very long-lasting smooth muscle relaxation in guinea pig tracheal strips. Optimization of pharmacokinetic properties was achieved by combining rapid oxidative clearance with targeted introduction of a phenolic moiety to secure rapid glucuronidation. Together, these attributes minimize systemic exposure following inhalation, mitigate potential drug-drug interactions, and reduce systemically mediated adverse events. Compound 47 (PF-3635659) is identified as a Phase II clinical candidate from this series with in vivo duration of action studies confirming its potential for once-daily use in humans.
17391892	Concentrations of nandrolone metabolites in urine after the therapeutic administration of an ophthalmic solution.	Nandrolone, an anabolic steroid, is used for the treatment of several diseases and is available in various pharmaceutical formulations. The most widely used pharmaceutical formulation is Deca-Durabolin, but other products, such as Keratyl eye drops solution, are also currently administered. Nandrolone is one of the most abused anabolic steroid in sports. Analyses for this anabolic steroid according to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) protocol are based on the identification of the nandrolone two main urinary metabolites which, in humans, are glucuronides of 19-norandrosterone and 19-noretiocholanolone. A positive cut off limit of 2 ng/mL has been set by the anti-doping code for the first metabolite, 19-norandrosterone. In this preliminary study, an eye drops solution (Keratyl) containing a therapeutic dose of a nandrolone sodium sulphate was administered to several male volunteers during 3 days and urines were collected during 3 weeks. Surprisingly, contrary to all expectations, the urinary concentrations measured in urines reached 450 ng/mL and 70 ng/mL for norandrosterone and noretiocholanolone, respectively. Moreover, concentration levels near to 2 ng/mL were found, more than 2 weeks after the last administration, depending on individual metabolism. Inter-variability as well as intra-variability of nandrolone excretion kinetic, regarding this particular administration mode, were also evaluated. Quantification of nandrolone metabolites was performed by GC-MS. The method was previously validated in terms of specificity, precision, linearity, LOD, LOQ, robustness, accuracy and the expanded uncertainty was also evaluated.
22933367	Pharmacokinetic interactions among major bioactive components in Radix Scutellariae via metabolic competition.	Baicalein (B), wogonin (W) and oroxylin A (OA) are major components in Radix Scutellariae with similar pharmacokinetic properties. Due to the co-presence of these three flavones in herbal formulations for Radix Scutellariae, they are likely consumed together. The aim of this study is to investigate whether the pharmacokinetics of individual flavones is influenced by each other and the underlying mechanism of the interaction. Various systems were utilized in the current study including a rat in vivo study, a Caco-2 cell monolayer model and a rat in situ single-pass intestinal perfusion as well as in vitro enzymatic kinetics studies. The B, W and OA given singly as well as in a mixture were administered and the corresponding pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated and compared. After co-administration of the three flavones to rats, OA absorption increased significantly in comparison with when OA was administered alone. Mechanistic studies on the Caco-2 cell monolayer and rat in situ single-pass intestinal perfusion models revealed that co-administration of B, W and OA could significantly enhance their absorption and decrease the extent of phase II metabolism. Further in vitro enzymatic study and a transport study in transfected MDCK cells revealed that metabolic competition rather than membrane transporters might contribute to the pharmacokinetic interactions. The co-presence of multiple active components would result in metabolic interactions, which may induce further changes in pharmacodynamics.
20709133	Human variation in CYP-specific chlorpyrifos metabolism.	Chlorpyrifos, an organophophorothioate insecticide, is bioactivated to the neurotoxic metabolite, chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPO) by cytochromes P450 (CYPs). To determine the variability in chlorpyrifos bioactivation, CPO production by human liver microsomes from 17 individual donors was compared relative to phenotype and genotype. CPO production varied over 14-fold between individuals in incubations utilizing 20 M chlorpyrifos as substrate, while CPO production varied 57-fold in incubations with 100 M chlorpyrifos. For all but two samples, the formation of the less toxic metabolite, 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP), was greater than CPO production. TCP production varied 9-fold in incubations utilizing 20 M chlorpyrifos as substrate and 19-fold using 100 M chlorpyrifos. Chlorpyrifos metabolism by individual human liver microsomes was significantly correlated with CYP2B6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 related activity. CPO formation was best correlated with CYP2B6 related activity at low (20 M) chlorpyrifos concentrations while CYP3A4 related activity was best correlated with CPO formation at high concentrations (100 M) of chlorpyrifos. TCP production was best correlated with CYP3A4 activity at all substrate concentrations of chlorpyrifos. The production of both CPO and TCP was significantly lower at a concentration of 20 M chlorpyrifos as compared to 100 M chlorpyrifos. Calculations of percent total normalized rates (% TNR) and the chemical inhibitors ketoconazole and ticlopidine were used to confirm the importance of CYP2B6, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 for the metabolism of chlorpyrifos. The combination of ketoconazole and ticlopidine inhibited the majority of TCP and CPO formation. CPO formation did not differ by CYP2B6 genotype. Individual variations in CPO production may need to be considered in determining the risk of chlorpyrifos poisoning.
15336377	Simultaneous determination of serum flecainide and its metabolites by using high performance liquid chromatography.	Simultaneous determination of serum flecainide and its oxidative metabolites was carried out by using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) equipped with conventional octadecylsilyl silica (ODS) column and fluorescence detector. Flecainide and its metabolites, m-O-dealkylated flecainide (MODF) and m-O-dealkylated lactam of flecainide (MODLF) in serum were extracted with ethyl acetate. The recoveries of flecainide, MODF and MODLF were greater than 92, 93, and 60% with the coefficient of variations (CVs) less than 3.2, 5.8, and 5.3%, respectively. The calibration curves were linear at the concentration range of 50-1500 ng/mL for flecainide and 10-500 ng/mL for MODF and MODLF (r > 0.999). The CVs for intra-day assay were 2.7-5.3% for flecainide, 3.0-4.2% for MODF, and 3.7-4.3% for MODLF, respectively. The CVs for inter-day assay were 7.0-8.4% for flecainide, 3.3-6.7% for MODF, and 4.4-7.7% for MODLF, respectively. This assay method can be used for assessing the metabolic ability of flecainide in the patients with tachyarrhythmia.
1804864	Pharmacokinetic comparison of flurbiprofen in end-stage renal disease subjects and subjects with normal renal function.	This study compared the pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen (F) and three major metabolites in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) with the pharmacokinetics of F in normal subjects. A single 100-mg dose of F was administered to each of nine normal subjects and eight ESRD subjects. Blood and urine samples were collected in both groups; serial and end of dwell dialysate samples were obtained from the ESRD subjects. Plasma was analyzed for both the R and S optical isomers of F and its major metabolite, 4'-hydroxy-flurbiprofen (HF). Urine and dialysate were analyzed for F and three known metabolites. Plasma concentrations of F in the ESRD subjects were approximately 50% of the values obtained from the normal subjects (P less than .05). Flurbiprofen half-life and Tmax were not different. Elimination of HF was reduced in ESRD subjects. Urinary data suggest that HF was the major metabolite excreted (36% of the dose) in normal subjects whereas 3',4'-dihydroxy-flurbiprofen was the major metabolite (9% of the dose) excreted in the ESRD group. Mean urinary recovery of the dose was 73% in the normal subjects, but only 16% in ESRD subjects. Neither F nor its metabolites were detected in dialysate. Small enantiomer differences were seen. This study suggests that ESRD subjects have lower plasma levels of F than normal subjects when administered equal size doses. Accumulation of metabolites may occur in ESRD subjects upon multiple dosing. Enantiomer differences are not clinically significant.
17220234	Glucuronidation of antiallergic drug, Tranilast: identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms and effect of its phase I metabolite.	Tranilast is an oral antiallergic agent widely used in Japan. Recently, in Western populations, hyperbilirubinemia induced by tranilast was suspected during clinical trials. Tranilast has been reported to be mainly metabolized to a glucuronide and a phase I metabolite, 4-demethyltranilast (N-3). In the present study, we investigated the in vitro metabolism of tranilast in human liver and jejunum microsomes and recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). The glucuronidation of tranilast was clarified to be mainly catalyzed by UGT1A1 in human liver and intestine. The K(m) values of tranilast glucuronosyltransferase activity were 51.5, 50.6, and 38.0 microM in human liver microsomes, human jejunum microsomes, and recombinant UGT1A1, respectively. The V(max) values were 10.4, 42.9, and 19.7 pmol/min/mg protein in human liver microsomes, human jejunum microsomes, and recombinant UGT1A1, respectively. When the intrinsic clearance was calculated using the in vitro kinetic parameters, microsomal protein content, and weight of tissues, tranilast glucuronosyltransferase activity was 2.5-fold higher in liver than in intestine. Tranilast glucuronosyltransferase activity was strongly inhibited by bilirubin, a typical UGT1A1 substrate, and N-3, indicating that the phase I metabolite could affect the tranilast glucuronosyltransferase activity. In the case of N-3 formation, the K(m) and V(max) values were 37.1 microM and 27.6 pmol/min/mg protein in human liver microsomes. The bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase activity was strongly inhibited by both tranilast and N-3, suggesting that tranilast-induced hyperbilirubinemia would be responsible for the inhibition by tranilast and N-3 of the bilirubin glucuronosyltransferase activity, as would the UGT1A1 genotype.
17702645	DNA adduct formation in human hepatoma cells treated with 3-nitrobenzanthrone: analysis by the (32)P-postlabeling method.	3-Nitrobenzanthrone (3-nitro-7H-benz[d,e]anthracen-7-one, 3-NBA) is a powerful mutagen and a suspected human carcinogen existing in diesel exhaust and airborne particulates. Recently, one of the major presumed metabolites of 3-NBA, 3-aminobenzanthrone (3-ABA), was detected in human urine samples. Here we analyzed DNA adducts formed in 3-NBA-exposed human hepatoma HepG2 cells by a (32)P-postlabeling/thin layer chromatography (TLC) method and a (32)P-postlabeling/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) method. With HepG2 cells exposed to 3-NBA (0.36-36.4 microM) for 3h, we obtained three spots or bands corresponding to adducted nucleotides. Two were assigned as 2-(2'-deoxyadenosin-N(6)-yl)-3-aminobenzanthrone-3'-phosphate (dA3'p-N(6)-C2-ABA) and 2-(2'-deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-3-aminobenzanthrone-3'-phosphate (dG3'p-N(2)-C2-ABA), with identical mobilities to those of synthetic standards on PAGE analysis. The chemical structure of the substance corresponding to the other spot or band could not be identified. Quantitative analyses revealed that the major adduct was dA3'p-N(6)-C2-ABA and its relative adduct labeling (RAL) value at 36.4 microM of 3-NBA was 200.8+/-86.1/10(8)nucleotide.
11592347	Limited sampling models for CPT-11, SN-38, and SN-38 glucuronide.	We developed limited sampling models (LSMs) for predicting the area under the curve (AUC) of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its metabolites SN-38 and SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G). Regression models were developed based on data from a phase I clinical trial involving 34 patients with advanced solid tumor malignancies who received CPT-11 as a 90-min infusion on an every 3-week dosing schedule. Multiple stepwise regression procedures were supplemented by all possible subsets regression analysis. Alternative clinically based and empirically derived LSMs were determined via model validation assessment including bootstrap simulation testing. The best LSMs for CPT-11 AUC included concentrations recorded at the end of infusion and 4 h later with an option to include a blood draw at 7.5 h from infusion start. For SN-38 and SN-38G AUC, optimal LSMs included the additional metabolite concentration at 48 h after infusion. The LSMs were able to predict most patient AUC values to within 10% of the true value. CPT-11 AUC can be modeled with acceptable accuracy using only two or three plasma concentration time-points. A variety of LSM alternatives provided comparable accuracy in predicting AUC. Given the wide variety of LSM alternatives, clinical considerations and patient burden become more important performance parameters than statistical considerations for the choice of time-points in constructing LSMs.
8687483	Glucuronide conjugates of 4-aminobiphenyl and its N-hydroxy metabolites. pH stability and synthesis by human and dog liver.	Glucuronide conjugates of arylamines are thought to be important in the carcinogenic process. This study investigated the pH stability and synthesis of glucuronide conjugates of 4-aminobiphenyl and its N-hydroxy metabolites by human and dog liver. Both dog and human liver slices incubated with 0.06 mM [3H]-4-aminobiphenyl produced the N-glucuronide of 4-aminobiphenyl as the major product. After 2 hr of incubation, the N-glucuronide of 4-aminobiphenyl represented 52 and 27% of the total radioactivity recovered by HPLC in dog and human, respectively. When 4-aminobiphenyl, N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl, or N-hydroxy-N-acetyl-4-aminobiphenyl was added to human microsomes containing [14C]UDP-glucuronic acid, a new product peak was detected by HPLC. At 0.5 mM, the rate of glucuronidation was N-hydroxy-N-acetyl-4-aminobiphenyl > N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl > 4-aminobiphenyl. The rate of formation of the N-glucuronide of 4-aminobiphenyl was similar to that observed with benzidine and N-acetylbenzidine. The glucuronides of 4-aminobiphenyl and N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl were both acid labile with T1/2 values of 10.5 and 32 min, respectively, at pH 5.5. The glucuronide of N-hydroxy-N-acetyl-4-aminobiphenyl was not acid labile with T1/2 values at pH 5.5 and 7.4 of 55 and 68 min, respectively. The glucuronide of 4-aminobiphenyl was the most acid labile conjugate examined. Thus, the glucuronide of 4-aminobiphenyl is a major product of dog and human liver slice metabolism and likely to play an important role in the carcinogenic process.
14973307	Pharmacokinetics and safety of Fosfluconazole after single intravenous bolus injection in healthy male Japanese volunteers.	This was a single blind, placebo-controlled, escalating single-dose, three-period crossover study using two subject cohorts to investigate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics in healthy male Japanese subjects after intravenous bolus injection of fosfluconazole 50 to 2000 mg, a phosphate prodrug of fluconazole (FLCZ). Fosfluconazole was rapidly converted to FLCZ with only minor amounts excreted in the urine (less than 4% of the dose). Fosfluconazole had a volume of distribution at the higher doses, which was similar to the extracellular volume in man (0.2 L/kg) and was eliminated with a terminal half-life of 1.5 to 2.5 hours. There was apparent dose proportionality in FLCZ pharmacokinetics. C(max) and AUC of FLCZ appeared to increase proportionally with increasing doses of fosfluconazole. There were no apparent dose-dependent trends in t(max), t(1/2), or mean residence time (MRT) of FLCZ. Bolus injection of fosfluconazole was well tolerated at doses of up to 2000 mg in healthy Japanese subjects.
18981166	Close association of UGT1A9 IVS1+399C>T with UGT1A1*28, *6, or *60 haplotype and its apparent influence on 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) glucuronidation in Japanese.	The anticancer prodrug, irinotecan, is converted to its active form 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) by carboxylesterases, and SN-38 is inactivated by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1-mediated glucuronidation. UGT1A9 also mediates this reaction. In a recent study, it was reported that the UGT1A9 IVS1+399 (I399)C>T polymorphism is associated with increased SN-38 glucuronidation both in vitro and in vivo. However, its role in UGT1A9 expression levels and activity is controversial. Thus, we evaluated the role of I399C>T in SN-38 glucuronidation using 177 Japanese cancer patients administered irinotecan. I399C>T was detected at a 0.636 allele frequency. This polymorphism was in strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) with UGT1A9*1b (-126_-118T(9)>T(10), |D'| = 0.99) and UGT1A1*6 (211G>A, 0.86), in moderate LD with UGT1A1*60 (-3279T>G, 0.55), but weakly associated with UGT1A1*28 (-54_-39A(TA)(6)TAA>A(TA)(7)TAA, 0.25). Haplotype analysis showed that 98% of the I399C alleles were linked with low-activity haplotypes, either UGT1A1*6, *28, or *60. On the other hand, 85% of the T alleles were linked with the UGT1A1 wild-type haplotype *1. Although I399T-dependent increases in SN-38 glucuronide/SN-38 area under concentration-time curve (AUC) ratio (an in vivo marker for UGT1A activity) and decreases in SN-38 AUC/dose were apparent (P < 0.0001), these effects were no longer observed after stratified patients by UGT1A1*6, *28, or *60 haplotype. Thus, at least in Japanese populations, influence of I399C>T on SN-38 glucuronidation is attributable to its close association with either UGT1A1*6, *28, or *60.
8615855	Validation of the (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid as an in vitro substrate probe for human liver CYP2E1.	The (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid (11-OH-LA), a model substrate of fatty acids, was previously shown to be due to CYP2E1 in rat liver microsomes. The present study examined changes in hepatic CYP2E1 content and 11-OH-LA in a panel of 29 human liver microsomes. The 11-OH-LA activity was strongly correlated with the CYP2E1 content, quantitated by immunoblot (r = 0.75) and with four monooxygenase activities known to be mediated by CYP2E1: chlorzoxazone-6-hydroxylation (r = 0.73), 4-nitrophenol hydroxylation (r = 0.84), N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylation (r = 0.79) and n-butanol oxidation (r = 0.73). The (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid was inhibited by ethanol (Ki = 3.5 mM), acetone (IC50 = 10 mM) dimethylsulfoxide, chlorzoxazone (competitive inhibitors of CYP2E1), diethyldithiocarbamate, and diallylsulfide (both selective mechanism-based inactivators of CYP2E1). The weak value of ethanol Ki on the (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid suggested that low levels of alcohol could modify fatty acid metabolism in the liver. Furafylline and gestodene, suicide substrates of CYP1A and CYP3A4, respectively, did not modify the 11-hydroxylation of lauric acid. Polyclonal antibody directed against rat CYP2E1 inhibited the formation of 11-OH-LA without affecting 12-OH-LA activity. Taken together, these results suggest that CYP2E1 is involved in the (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid in human liver microsomes, and omega-hydroxylation is mediated by another enzyme. Finally, the use of yeasts and mammalian cells genetically engineered for expression of 9 human P450s demonstrated that CYP2E1 was the one enzyme involved in the (omega-1)-hydroxylation of lauric acid.
11780759	Differential inhibition of human liver and duodenum sulphotransferase activities by quercetin, a flavonoid present in vegetables, fruit and wine.	1. Quercetin is a natural flavonoid present in vegetables, fruit and wine, and is known to inhibit sulphotransferase. Drugs are often taken orally and the intestinal mucosa is an early site of drug metabolism. The aims of this investigation were to study the inhibition of dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol sulphation by quercetin in the duodenal mucosa and liver and to compare the IC50 in these tissues. 2. The rates (pmol min(-1) mg(-1)) of sulphation of 4-nitrophenol were 343+/-92 (liver) and 164+/-22 (duodenum; p = 0.031), of dopamine were 15+/-11 (liver) and 656+/-516 (duodenum; p = 0.049), of (-)-salbutamol 153+/-31 (liver) and 654+/-277 (duodenum; p = 0.018), of minoxidil were 156+/-47 (liver) and 105+/-7 (duodenum; n.s.), and of paracetamol were 229+/-86 (liver) and 328+/-187 (duodenum; n.s.). 3. The IC50 of quercetin for 4-nitrophenol was 48+/-11 nM (liver) and 56+/-1 nM (duodenum, n.s.), for dopamine was 5.7+/-0.7 microM (liver) and 170+/-12 microM (duodenum, p < 0.0001), for (-)-salbutamol was 54+/-4 nM (liver) and 16+/-8 microM (duodenum; p = 0.025), for minoxidil was 134+/-22 nM (liver) and 3+/-0.3 microM (duodenum, p = 0.013), and for paracetamol was 57+/-7 nM (liver) and 35+/-1 microM (duodenum; p = 0.0002). 4. Quercetin inhibited the sulphation of 4-nitrophenol, dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol both in liver and duodenum. With dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol as substrates, quercetin was a more potent inhibitor in the liver than the duodenum. Such a difference may reflect the different composition of sulphotransferase forms in the liver and duodenum.
12899952	Sensitive determination of buprenorphine and its N-dealkylated metabolite norbuprenorphine in human plasma by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry.	A highly sensitive method based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been developed for the quantitative determination of buprenorphine and its active metabolite norbuprenorphine in human plasma. Automated solid phase extraction (SPE) on disposable extraction cartridges (DEC) is used to isolate the compounds from the biological matrix and to prepare a cleaner sample before injection and analysis in the LC-MS/MS system. After conditioning, the plasma sample (1.0 ml) is loaded on the DEC filled with octyl silica (C8) and washed with water. The analytes are, therefore, eluted by dispensing methanol containing 0.1% of acetic acid. The eluate is collected and evaporated to dryness. The residue is dissolved in mobile phase and an aliquot is injected in the LC-MS/MS system. On-line LC-MS/MS system using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) has been developed for the determination of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. The separation is obtained on a RP-18 stationary phase using a mobile phase consisting in a mixture of methanol and 50 mM ammonium acetate solution (50:50, v/v). Clonazepam is used as internal standard (IS). The MS/MS ion transitions monitored are m/z 468-->468, 414-->414 and 316-->270 for buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine and clonazepam, respectively. The method was validated regarding recovery, linearity, precision and accuracy. The limits of quantification (LOQs) were around 10 pg/ml for buprenorphine and 50 pg/ml for norbuprenorphine.
21058415	Methodology for and the determination of the major constituents and metabolites of the Amazonian botanical medicine ayahuasca in human urine.	Ayahuasca, also known as caapi or yage among various South American groups, holds a highly esteemed and millennia-old position in these cultures' medical and religious pharmacopeia. There is now an increasing interest in the potential for modern medical applications of ayahuasca, as well as concerns regarding its increasing potential for abuse. Toxicological and clinical research to address these issues will require information regarding its metabolism and clearance. Thus, a rapid, sensitive and specific method for characterization and quantitation of the major constituents and of the metabolites of ayahuasca in urine is needed. The present research provides a protocol for conducting such analyses. The characteristics of the method, conducted by sample dilution and using HPLC-electrospray ionization (ESI)-selected reaction monitoring (SRM)-tandem mass spectrometry, are presented. The application of the analytical protocol to urine samples collected from three individuals that were administered ayahuasca has also been demonstrated. The data show that the major metabolite of the hallucinogenic component of ayahuasca, N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT), is the corresponding N-oxide, the first time this metabolite has been described in in vivo studies in humans. Further, very little DMT was detected in urine, despite the inhibition of monoamine oxidase afforded by the presence of the harmala alkaloids in ayahuasca. The major harmala alkaloid excreted was tetrahydroharmine. Other excretion products and metabolites were also identified and quantified. The method described would be suitable for use in further toxicological and clinical research on ayahuasca.
16001174	Phase I study of the combination of topotecan and irinotecan in children with refractory solid tumors.	We have shown in xenograft studies that the antitumor activities of topotecan and irinotecan are highly schedule- and dose-dependent, with a high frequency of response at low, protracted dose schedules. Preclinical and clinical data suggest that topotecan and irinotecan have different antitumor activities and mechanisms of resistance, and non-overlapping toxicities, providing a rationale for their combination. Combining both agents may increase the amount of camptothecin delivered to the tumor, without additive toxicity. We conducted a phase I study in children with refractory solid tumors to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of irinotecan when administered with a targeted systemic exposure (TSE) of topotecan and to define the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of this combination. Irinotecan was administered IV over 60 min followed by topotecan over 30 min daily for 5 days for two consecutive weeks. We initially fixed the topotecan-TSE to 80+/-10 ng*h/ml and investigated the ability to escalate irinotecan (starting dose 16 mg/m2/d). Topotecan and irinotecan pharmacokinetics were determined. Eleven patients (median age 10 years) were enrolled. Owing to DLT, irinotecan was de-escalated to 12 (level -1; n = 3) and 9 (level -2; n = 3) mg/m2/day, and topotecan-TSE was reduced to 60+/-10 ng*h/ml (level -3; n = 2). DLTs were neutropenia (n = 8), typhlitis (n = 5), and skin rash (n = 1). MTD could not be reached. Median (range) irinotecan and topotecan lactone systemic clearances were 50.3 (16.6-76.2) l/h/m2 and 27.6 (14.7-55.9) l/h/m2, respectively. The pharmacokinetics profile of each agent was similar to that seen in previous single agent studies. One patient with neuroblastoma and one with rhabdomyosarcoma had a partial and a complete response, respectively. Despite promising antitumor activity, the combination of topotecan and irinotecan given on a protracted schedule does not warrant further development in children due to unacceptable toxicity.
14709625	Potent inhibition of human liver aldehyde oxidase by raloxifene.	The selective estrogen receptor modulator, raloxifene, has been demonstrated as a potent uncompetitive inhibitor of human liver aldehyde oxidase-catalyzed oxidation of phthalazine, vanillin, and nicotine-Delta1'(5')-iminium ion, with K(i) values of 0.87 to 1.4 nM. Inhibition was not time-dependent. Raloxifene has also been shown to be a noncompetitive inhibitor of an aldehyde oxidase-catalyzed reduction reaction of a hydroxamic acid-containing compound, with a K(i) of 51 nM. However, raloxifene had only small effects on xanthine oxidase, an enzyme related to aldehyde oxidase. In addition, several other compounds of the same therapeutic class as raloxifene were examined for their potential to inhibit aldehyde oxidase. However, none were as potent as raloxifene, since IC(50) values were orders of magnitude higher and ranged from 0.29 to 57 micro M. In an examination of analogs of raloxifene, it was shown that the bisphenol structure with a hydrophobic group on the 3-position of the benzthiophene ring system was the most important element that imparts inhibitory potency. The relevance of these data to the mechanistic understanding of aldehyde oxidase catalysis, as well as to the potential for raloxifene to cause drug interactions with agents for which aldehyde oxidase-mediated metabolism is important, such as zaleplon or famciclovir, is discussed.
18948546	Urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations among workers in selected industries: a pilot biomonitoring study.	Phthalates are used as plasticizers and solvents in industrial, medical and consumer products; however, occupational exposure information is limited. We sought to obtain preliminary information on occupational exposures to diethyl phthalate (DEP), di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP) and di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) by analyzing for their metabolites in urine samples collected from workers in a cross-section of industries. We also obtained data on metabolites of dimethyl phthalate (DMP), benzylbutyl phthalate (BzBP), di-isobutyl phthalate and di-isononyl phthalate. We recruited 156 workers in 2003-2005 from eight industry sectors. We assessed occupational contribution by comparing end-shift metabolite concentrations to the US general population. Evidence of occupational exposure to DEHP was strongest in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film manufacturing, PVC compounding and rubber boot manufacturing where geometric mean (GM) end-shift concentrations of DEHP metabolites exceeded general population levels by 8-, 6- and 3-fold, respectively. Occupational exposure to DBP was most evident in rubber gasket, phthalate (raw material) and rubber hose manufacturing, with DBP metabolite concentrations exceeding general population levels by 26-, 25- and 10-fold, respectively, whereas DBP exposure in nail-only salons (manicurists) was only 2-fold higher than in the general population. Concentrations of DEP and DMP metabolites in phthalate manufacturing exceeded general population levels by 4- and >1000-fold, respectively. We also found instances where GM end-shift concentrations of some metabolites exceeded general population concentrations even when no workplace use was reported, e.g. BzBP in rubber hose and rubber boot manufacturing. In summary, using urinary metabolites, we successfully identified workplaces with likely occupational phthalate exposure. Additional work is needed to distinguish occupational from non-occupational sources in low-exposure workplaces.
20420787	Thorough QT study of the effect of fesoterodine on cardiac repolarization.	Fesoterodine 4 mg and 8 mg once daily are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder. A thorough QT study was conducted to investigate the effects of fesoterodine on cardiac repolarization. In this parallel-group study, subjects were randomly assigned to receive double-blind fesoterodine 4 mg, fesoterodine 28 mg, or placebo or open-label moxifloxacin 400 mg (positive control) for 3 days. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were obtained on Days -1 (baseline), 1, and 3. The primary analysis was the time-averaged changes from baseline for Fridericia's-corrected QT interval (QTcF) on Day 3. Among 261 subjects randomized to fesoterodine 4 mg (n = 64), fesoterodine 28 mg (n = 68), placebo (n = 65), or moxifloxacin 400 mg (n = 64), 256 completed the trial. The least squares mean changes in QTcF from baseline were 21.1, 20.5, 18.5, and 31.3 ms (maximum), and -5.1, -4.2, -5.2, and 7.6 ms (time-averaged at Day 3) for placebo, fesoterodine 4 mg, fesoterodine 28 mg, and moxifloxacin, respectively. The lower limit of the 95% confidence interval exceeded 5 ms for moxifloxacin. The results indicate that fesoterodine is not associated with QTc prolongation or other ECG abnormalities at either therapeutic or supratherapeutic doses.
19720731	Evaluation of the potential for drug-induced liver injury based on in vitro covalent binding to human liver proteins.	Prediction of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is difficult, and the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. However, many drugs causing DILI are considered to form reactive metabolites and covalently bind to cellular macromolecules in the liver. The objective of this study was to clarify whether the risk of idiosyncratic DILI can be estimated by comparing in vitro covalent binding (CB) levels among 12 positive compounds (acetaminophen, alpidem, bromfenac, carbamazepine, diclofenac, flutamide, imipramine, nefazodone, tacrine, ticlopidine, tienilic acid, and troglitazone) for DILI and 12 negative compounds (acetylsalicylic acid, caffeine, dexamethasone, losartan, ibuprofen, paroxetine, pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, sertraline, theophylline, venlafaxine, and zolpidem). After incubation with human liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH, there was a large overlap in the distribution of CB amounts between the positive and negative groups. On addition of UDP-glucuronic acid (UDPGA) as a cofactor for glucuronidation, the CB levels of bromfenac and diclofenac were increased. With addition of nucleophilic glutathione (GSH), values for most compounds were decreased. However, separation of the two groups on the basis of CB could not be improved by UDPGA or GSH. Furthermore, CB with human hepatocytes also failed to discriminate positive from negative compounds. Therefore, the CB amount alone is not sufficient for risk assessment of DILI. In contrast, when the CB amount was multiplied by the maximum daily dose, which may reflect maximum hepatic exposure, the two groups did become discriminated. Taken together, our findings suggest that the combination of CB amount and daily dose can estimate the risk of idiosyncratic DILI.
6715466	High-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of amineptine and its main metabolite in human plasma.	An isocratic reversed-phase ion-pair liquid chromatographic method for the determination of amineptine and its main metabolite in plasma using an internal standard, is reported. The effects of stationary phase alkyl chain length and the concentration of alkyl sulfonate in the mobile phase were investigated. The drugs were extracted as ion pairs and the influence of various parameters on the extraction efficiency are discussed. Using a heptane-octanol-tetraheptylammonium bromide mixture (98:2:0.5, v/v/w) as extraction solvent, more than 60% of each drug was recovered with a very good selectivity. UV detection at 220 nm allowed drug determination down to 0.010 microgram/ml. Linear standard curves up to 1.00 microgram/ml were observed.
19874648	Oxycodone-related fatalities in the west of Scotland.	The intent of this study was to review fatalities involving oxycodone in the west of Scotland using a liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry method developed for the determination of oxycodone and N- and O-demethylated metabolites in unhydrolyzed postmortem specimens. Ten oxycodone positive postmortem cases were detected, and nine were drug-related fatalities. Five cases were attributed solely to oxycodone intoxication and four to polydrug intoxication. Although there was overlap between blood oxycodone levels in deaths attributed to oxycodone only and those due to polydrug intoxication, lower oxycodone levels (< 1 mg/L) were associated with polydrug intoxication when compared with cases due to oxycodone alone (> 1 mg/L). The role of the parent drug in oxycodone fatalities has been fully studied, but the role of oxycodone metabolites (noroxycodone and oxymorphone) was investigated in this report for the first time. Oxycodone was more commonly detected in blood, urine, and vitreous humor followed by noroxycodone. The ratio between oxycodone and its N-demethylated metabolite was evaluated and found to be useful in determining whether death occurred shortly after drug administration or if there was a significant delay. High parent/metabolite ratios were correlated with short survival times after ingestion. The median ratio of oxycodone/noroxycodone was 2.4 and ranged from 0.7 to 49. Oxycodone prescriptions have risen sharply in Scotland in recent years, and the identification of 10 oxycodone-related deaths in the past 18 months highlights the importance of including this drug in routine laboratory screening and confirmation procedures.
11823757	Effect of modafinil on the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and triazolam in healthy volunteers.	Modafinil has been reported to produce a concentration-related induction of CYP3A4/5 activity in vitro in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Our objective was to determine whether the pharmacokinetics of steady-state ethinyl estradiol (INN, ethinylestradiol) and single-dose triazolam were altered after 4 weeks of modafinil treatment in volunteers. This was a placebo-controlled, single-blind, single-period study in 41 female subjects who were receiving long-term treatment with an oral contraceptive that contained ethinyl estradiol (0.035 mg) and norgestimate (0.180-0.250 mg). Pharmacokinetic profiles for ethinyl estradiol and for a single oral dose of triazolam (0.125 mg) were obtained the day before initiation of treatment with modafinil (200 mg for 7 days, followed by 400 mg for 21 days) or placebo (28 days). A second dose of triazolam was administered with the final dose of modafinil, and pharmacokinetic profiling was repeated. The modafinil treatment group had a marked decrease in maximum observed plasma concentrations and areas under the plasma concentration-time curve for triazolam relative to placebo, with a much smaller decrease in these parameters for ethinyl estradiol. The half-life of triazolam was also decreased, but the half-life of ethinyl estradiol did not appear to be affected by treatment with modafinil. Modafinil induced CYP3A4/5 activity in humans in vivo, suggesting that there is potential for metabolic drug-drug interactions between modafinil and substrates of CYP3A4/5. However, the induction appeared to be more gastrointestinal than hepatic in nature. Therefore significant metabolic drug-drug interactions are most likely to occur with compounds (such as triazolam) that undergo significant gastrointestinal CYP3A4/5-mediated first-pass metabolism.
22939887	Efficacy and mechanism of action of Proellex, an antiprogestin in aromatase overexpressing and Letrozole resistant T47D breast cancer cells.	Aromatase inhibitors (AI) are considered as a first line therapy for ER+PR+ breast cancers. However, many patients acquire resistance to AI. In this study, we determined the response of antiprogestin CDB-4124 (Proellex) on the aromatase overexpressing and Letrozole resistant cell lines and also studies its mechanism of action in inhibition of breast cancer cell proliferation. For these studies we generated aromatase overexpressing T47D (T47Darom) and respective control (T47Dcon) breast cancer cell lines by stable transfection with plasmid containing CYP19A1 gene, or empty vector respectively. Letrozole resistant cell line (T47DaromLR) was generated by incubating T47Darom for 75 weeks in the presence of 10 M Letrozole. Cell proliferation was determined by MTT or crystal violet assays. Gene expressions were quantified by QRT-PCR whereas proteins were identified by western blot analyses, flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining. Aromatase activity was determined by estradiol ELISA. The effects of Proellex on the anchorage independent growth were measured by soft agar colony formation. Statistical differences between the various groups were determined by Student's 't' test or ANOVA followed by Bonferroni's post hoc test. Results showed that T47Darom and T47DaromLR cell lines had significantly higher aromatase expression (mRNA; 80-90 fold and protein) and as a result exhibited increased aromatization of testosterone to estradiol as compared to T47Dcon. Both these cell lines showed enhanced growth in the presence of Testosterone (50-60%). In T47DaromLR cells increased PR-B and EGFR expression as compared to T47Dcon cells was observed. Proellex and other known aromatase inhibitors (Letrozole, Anastrozole, and Exemestane) inhibited testosterone induced cell proliferation and anchorage independent growth of T47Darom cells. Cell growth inhibition was significantly greater when cells were treated with Proellex alone or in combination with other AIs as compared to AIs alone. Proellex inhibited mRNA and protein levels of PR-B, reduced PRB/p300 complex formation in the nuclei and significantly reduced EGFR expression in T47Darom cells. Our results in the present study indicate that antiproliferative effect of Proellex is probably due to PR-B/EGFR modulation in ER+PR+, aromatase expressing cells. Overall these results suggest that antiprogestin, Proellex can be developed as a possible treatment strategy for aromatase overexpressing ER+/PR+ breast cancer patients as well as for aromatase inhibitor resistant breast cancer patients.
21783974	Phthalate metabolites in urine of CF patients are associated with use of enteric-coated pancreatic enzymes.	In metabolomic studies using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry of urine from children with cystic fibrosis (CF), high levels of metabolites of low molecular weight phthalates were found. Phthalate metabolite excretion was explained by therapy with enteric-coated pancreatic enzyme replacements. Phthalate metabolite identity was confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry. Pancreatic insufficient CF children taking Cotazym ECS(), which is formulated with diethyl phthalate (DEP), had urinary metabolites of DEP. Children taking Creon(), which has dibutyl phthalate (DBP), excreted DBP metabolites. The estimated concentrations of free MEP were 2-3 orders of magnitude higher than reported from environmental phthalate exposure. Enteric-coated pancreatic enzymes can expose individuals with CF to incessant, high oral intakes of phthalates. Although adverse effects have neither been shown to be present nor absent, we raise the need to consider that individuals requiring life-long therapy with some current pancreatic enzyme replacements chronically ingest high amounts of phthalates.
16885722	Estimating time of last oral ingestion of cannabis from plasma THC and THCCOOH concentrations.	Estimating the time of last cannabis use is important in assessing possible impairment of drivers involved in accidents, in verifying accuracy of court testimony and in the future, helpful in therapeutic monitoring of cannabis agonists. In 1992, Huestis et al developed model 1, based on plasma Delta-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentrations, and model 2, on plasma 11-nor-9-carboxy-Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannbinol/THC ratios, that predicted 95% confidence intervals for time of last cannabis use. These models seemed to be valuable when applied to the small amount of data from published studies of oral ingestion, a route of administration more popular with the advent of cannabis therapies. A study was designed to further validate the models after oral ingestion of THC, and to determine whether they could predict last usage after multiple oral doses. Eighteen subjects in IRB-approved studies participated after providing informed consent. Each of 12 subjects in one group received a single 10 mg oral dose of dronabinol (synthetic THC). In another protocol, 6 subjects received 4 different oral daily doses, divided into thirds and administered with meals for 5 consecutive days. There was a 10-day washout period between each dosing regimen. Daily doses were 0.39, 0.47, and 14.8 mg THC in hemp oil and 7.5 mg dronabinol. Blood specimens were collected throughout the study and analyzed for plasma THC and 11-nor-9-carboxy-Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannbinol by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry with limits of quantification (LOQs) of 0.5 and 1.0 ng/mL, respectively. Actual times between ingestion of THC and blood collection spanned 0.5 to 16 hours. All plasma specimens with analyte concentrations >LOQ (n=90) were evaluated. Models 1 and 2 correctly predicted time of last THC ingestion for 74.4% and 90.0% of plasma specimens, respectively. 96.7% of predicted times were correct with one overestimate and 2 underestimates using the time interval defined by the lowest and highest 95% confidence limit of both models. These results provide further evidence of the usefulness of the predictive models in estimating the time of last oral THC ingestion after single or multiple doses.
21235585	Mechanism of cytochrome P450-3A inhibition by ketoconazole.	Ketoconazole is extensively used as an index inhibitor of cytochrome P450-3A (CYP3A) activity in vitro and in vivo, but the mechanism of ketoconazole inhibition of CYP3A still is not clearly established. Inhibition of metabolite formation by ketoconazole (seven concentrations from 0.01 to 1.0 m) was studied in human liver microsomes (n = 4) at six to seven substrate concentrations for triazolam, midazolam, and testosterone, and at two substrate concentrations for nifedipine. Analysis of multiple data points per liver sample based on a mixed competitive-noncompetitive model yielded mean inhibition constant K(i) values in the range of 0.011 to 0.045 m. Ketoconazole IC50 increased at higher substrate concentrations, thereby excluding pure noncompetitive inhibition. For triazolam, testosterone, and midazolam -hydroxylation, mean values of  (indicating the 'mix' of competitive and noncompetitive inhibition) ranged from 2.1 to 6.3. However, inhibition of midazolam 4-hydroxylation was consistent with a competitive process. Determination of K(i) and  based on the relation between 50% inhibitory concentration values and substrate concentration yielded similar values. Pre-incubation of ketoconazole with microsomes before addition of substrate did not enhance inhibition, whereas inhibition by troleandomycin was significantly enhanced by pre-incubation. Ketoconazole inhibition of triazolam - and 4-hydroxylation, midazolam -hydroxylation, testosterone 6-hydroxylation, and nifedipine oxidation appeared to be a mixed competitive-noncompetitive process, with the noncompetitive component being dominant but not exclusive. Quantitative estimates of K(i) were in the low nanomolar range for all four substrates.
20203109	Selection of alternative CYP3A4 probe substrates for clinical drug interaction studies using in vitro data and in vivo simulation.	Understanding the potential for cytochrome P450-mediated drug-drug interactions (DDIs) is a critical step in the drug discovery process. DDIs of CYP3A4 are of particular importance because of the number of marketed drugs that are cleared by this enzyme. In response to studies that suggested the presence of several binding regions within the CYP3A4 active site, multiple probe substrates are often used for in vitro CYP3A4 DDI studies, including midazolam (the clinical standard), felodipine/nifedipine, and testosterone. However, the design of clinical CYP3A4 DDI studies may be confounded for cases such as 1-(2-hydroxy-2-methylpropyl)-N-[5-(7-methoxyquinolin-4-yloxy)pyridin-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-oxo-2-phenyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide (AMG 458), with which testosterone is predicted to exhibit a clinically relevant DDI whereas midazolam and felodipine/nifedipine are not. To develop an appropriate path forward for such clinical DDI studies, the inhibition potency of 20 known inhibitors of CYP3A4 were measured in vitro using 8 clinically relevant CYP3A4 probe substrates and testosterone. Hierarchical clustering suggested four probe substrate clusters: testosterone; felodipine; midazolam, buspirone, quinidine, and sildenafil; and simvastatin, budesonide, and fluticasone. The in vivo sensitivities of six clinically relevant CYP3A4 probe substrates (buspirone, cyclosporine, nifedipine, quinidine, sildenafil, and simvastatin) were determined in relation to midazolam from literature DDI data. Buspirone, sildenafil, and simvastatin exhibited similar or greater sensitivity than midazolam to CYP3A4 inhibition in vivo. Finally, Simcyp was used to predict the in vivo magnitude of CYP3A4 DDIs caused by AMG 458 using midazolam, sildenafil, simvastatin, and testosterone as probe substrates.
19575182	Covalent binding of organophosphorothioates to albumin: a new perspective for OP-pesticide biomonitoring?	We here report on the covalent binding of various organophosphorothioate (OPT) pesticides to albumin at in vitro exposure levels that did not give rise to butyrylcholinesterase inhibition. Adduct formation occurred at the Tyr-411 residue of albumin, as was firmly corroborated by LC-tandem MS analysis of a pepsin digest of OPT-modified albumin. It cannot be excluded that other (tyrosine) residues become modified as well. A convenient method for mass spectrometric determination of the OPT tyrosine adduct has also been developed based on the pronase digestion of albumin and subsequent LC-tandem MS analysis of the digest. The resulting tyrosine phosphorothioate ester displayed favorable chromatographic and mass spectrometric properties for sensitive analysis. In vitro exposure levels of parathion and chlorpyrifos down to 1 microM could readily be assessed. The remarkable affinity of OPTs for albumin opens the way for a more complete assessment of OP pesticide exposure.
18832478	Apixaban metabolism and pharmacokinetics after oral administration to humans.	The metabolism and disposition of [(14)C]apixaban, an orally bioavailable, highly selective, and direct acting/reversible factor Xa inhibitor, was investigated in 10 healthy male subjects without (group 1, n=6) and with bile collection (group 2, n=4) after a single 20-mg oral dose. Urine, blood, and feces samples were collected from all subjects. Bile samples were also collected for 3 to 8 h after dosing from group 2 subjects. There were no serious adverse events or discontinuations due to adverse effects. In plasma, apixaban was the major circulating component and O-demethyl apixaban sulfate, a stable and water-soluble metabolite, was the significant metabolite. The exposure of apixaban (C(max) and area under the plasma concentration versus time curve) in subjects with bile collection was generally similar to that in subjects without bile collection. The administered dose was recovered in feces (group 1, 56.0%; group 2, 46.7%) and urine (group 1, 24.5%; group 2, 28.8%), with the parent drug representing approximately half of the recovered dose. Biliary excretion represented a minor elimination pathway (2.44% of the administered dose) from group 2 subjects within the limited collection period. Metabolic pathways identified for apixaban included O-demethylation, hydroxylation, and sulfation of hydroxylated O-demethyl apixaban. Thus, apixaban is an orally bioavailable inhibitor of factor Xa with elimination pathways that include metabolism and renal excretion.
16713308	A simple in vitro model to study the stability of acylglucuronides.	Compounds containing the carboxylic functional group (e.g. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) can be metabolized to form acylglucuronides. Acylglucuronides are intrinsically reactive metabolites capable of undergoing hydrolysis, intra-molecular rearrangement, and formation of covalent adducts with proteins, which may generate potential toxicity. The purpose of this study is to develop an in vitro screening model to assess degradation kinetics of acylglucuronides. Zomepirac, ibuprofen, gemfibrozil, and compounds A, B, C, and D were incubated in the presence of rat microsomal protein and uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA), followed by addition of human plasma to evaluate degradation kinetics of the acylglucuronides. As a comparison, authentic acylglucuronide standards of zomepirac, ibuprofen, gemfibrozil, and compounds A, B, C, and D were chemically synthesized and were evaluated for degradation kinetics. The results demonstrate that degradation half-life values of acylglucuronides of zomepirac, ibuprofen, gemfibrozil, and compounds A, B, C, and D determined by the in vitro formation/degradation model were in the same rank-order with those of the authentic acylglucuronide standards. For the seven compounds tested, the model placed the stability of the acylglucuronides formed in vitro in a rank-order consistent with authentic acylglucuronide standards. The method allows for a rapid assessment of the stability of acylglucuronides.
17163483	Metabolism of chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos oxon by human hepatocytes.	The metabolism of chlorpyrifos (CPS) and chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) by human hepatocytes and human liver S9 fractions was investigated using LC-MS/MS. Cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent and phase II-related products were determined following incubation with CPS and CPO. CYP-related products, 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP), diethyl thiophosphate, and dealkylated CPS, were found following CPS treatment and dealkylated CPO following CPO treatment. Diethyl phosphate was not identified because of its high polarity and lack of retention with the chromatographic conditions employed. Phase II-related conjugates, including O- and S-glucuronides as well as 11 GSH-derived metabolites, were identified in CPS-treated human hepatocytes, although the O-sulfate of TCP conjugate was found only when human liver S9 fractions were used as the enzyme source. O-Glucuronide of TCP was also identified in CPO-treated hepatocytes. CPS and CPO were identified using HPLC-UV after CPS metabolism by the human liver S9 fraction. However, CPO was not found following treatment of human hepatocytes with either CPS or CPO. These results suggest that human liver plays an important role in detoxification, rather than activation, of CPS.
17227090	Curcuminoids form reactive glucuronides in vitro.	Curcumin is of current interest because of its putative anti-inflammatory, anticarcinogenic, and anti-Alzheimer's activity, but its pharmacokinetic and metabolic fate is poorly understood. The present in vitro study has therefore been conducted on the glucuronidation of curcumin and its major phase I metabolite, hexahydro-curcumin, as well as of various natural and artificial analogs. The predominant glucuronide generated by rat and human liver microsomes from curcumin, hexahydro-curcumin, and other analogs with a phenolic hydroxyl group was a phenolic glucuronide according to LC-MS/MS analysis. However, a second glucuronide carrying the glucuronic acid moiety at the alcoholic hydroxyl group was formed from the same curcuminoids, but not hexahydro-curcuminoids, by human microsomes. Curcuminoids without a phenolic hydroxyl group gave rise to the aliphatic glucuronide only. The phenolic glucuronides of curcuminoids, but not of hexahydro-curcuminoids, were rather lipophilic and, in part, unstable in aqueous solution, their stability depending strongly on the type of aromatic substitution. The phenolic glucuronide of curcumin and of its natural congeners, but not the parent compounds, clearly inhibited the assembly of microtubule proteins under cell-free conditions, implying chemical reactivity of the glucuronides. These novel properties of the major phase II metabolites of curcuminoids deserve further investigation.
17446145	Determination of Cloretazine (VNP40101M) and its active metabolite (VNP4090CE) in human plasma by liquid chromatography electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).	A sensitive method for the determination of Cloretazine (VNP40101M) and its metabolite (VNP4090CE) with an internal standard (ISTD) in human plasma was developed using high-performance liquid chromatographic separation with tandem mass spectrometric detection. Acidified plasma samples (500 microL) were prepared using solid phase extraction (SPE) columns, and 25 microL of the reconstituted sample was injected onto an Ascentis C18 HPLC column (3 microm, 5 cmx2.1 mm) with an isocratic mobile phase. Analytes were detected with an API-3000 LC-MS/MS System at unit (Q1) and low (Q3) resolution in negative multiple reaction monitoring mode: m/z 249.0 (precursor ion) to m/z 114.9 (product ion) for both Cloretazine (at 3.64 min) and VNP4090CE (at 2.91 min), and m/z 253.0 (precursor ion) to m/z 116.9 (product ion) for the ISTD. The mean recovery for Cloretazine (VNP40101M) and its metabolite (VNP4090CE) was greater than 87% with a lower limit of quantification of 1.0 ng/mL for Cloretazine (S/N=9.7, CV<or=12%) and 0.5 ng/mL for VNP4090CE (S/N=11.3, CV<or=9.7%). This method was validated over a linear range of 1.0-1000 ng/mL for Cloretazine and 0.5-100 ng/mL for VNP4090CE, and results from a five day validation study demonstrated good within-day and between-day precision and accuracy. This method has been used to measure plasma Cloretazine and its metabolite concentrations in a Phase I study in children with recurrent progressive or refractory primary brain tumors.
11763000	The effect of CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 genotypes on the metabolism of clomipramine in Japanese psychiatric patients.	In this study, the authors investigated the relationship between the metabolism of clomipramine (C) and the genotypes of cytochrome P450 (CYP) CYP2C19 and CYP2D6. Fifty-one Japanese patients (18 men and 33 women) were administered 10 to 250 mg/day of C by mouth and maintained on the same daily dose of C for at least 2 weeks to obtain steady-state concentrations. Plasma levels of C and its metabolites N-desmethylclomipramine (DC), 8-hydroxyclomipramine, and 8-hydroxy-N-desmethylclomipramine (HDC) were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. The allele frequencies of CYP2C19*2, CYP2C19*3, CYP2D6*5, and CYP2D6*10 were 27.5%, 12.8%, 2.9%, and 43.1%, respectively. Subjects who were homozygous for mutated alleles of CYP2C19 showed approximately 75% higher concentrations of C corrected by dose and body weight compared with those who were homozygous for wild-type alleles. Also, subjects who were homozygous for mutated alleles of CYP2C19 showed an approximately 68% higher value of C/DC compared with those who were homozygous for wild-type alleles. No significant difference in the ratio of DC/HDC was observed between subjects who were homozygous for mutated alleles of CYP2D6 and those who were homozygous for wild-type alleles. These results suggest that genotyping CYP2C19 is useful for grossly predicting the risk of getting high plasma concentrations of C and the low individual capacity to demethylate C because there is marked interindividual variability within each genotype. However, the genotyping of CYP2D6 is not useful for predicting the individual capacity to hydroxylate DC.
12850404	Tissue distribution of trichloroethylene in a case of accidental acute intoxication by inhalation.	This article describes the toxicological findings in a fatality due to an accidental inhalation of trichloroethylene which took place during wall coating of a poorly ventilated well using trichloroethylene. The man was wearing protective clothing and a mouthmask with adsorbent. He was found dead on the floor of the well 5h after descending. Trichloroethylene was added to the mortar to enhance drying. Identification and quantitation of trichloroethylene in the postmortem samples (blood, lung, liver, kidney, stomach content and bile) and identification of its metabolite trichloroacetic acid in urine was performed using static headspace gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detector. The compounds were separated on a CP-SIL 5CB Low Bleed/MS column using n-butanol as internal standard. The method was linear over the specific range investigated, and showed an accuracy of 104% and an intra-day precision of 11%. Trichloroethylene concentrations of 84mg/l in subclavian blood, 40mg/l in femoral blood, 72mg/kg in liver, 12mg/kg in kidney, 78mg/kg in stomach content, 104mg/l in bile and 21mg/kg in lung were found. Trichloroacetic acid was identified in the urine.
23704698	Glucuronidation of a sarpogrelate active metabolite is mediated by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A4, 1A9, and 2B4.	Sarpogrelate is a selective serotonin 5-HT2A-receptor antagonist used to treat patients with peripheral arterial disease. This drug is rapidly hydrolyzed to its main metabolite (R,S)-1-[2-[2-(3-methoxyphenyl)ethyl]phenoxy]-3-(dimethylamino)-2-propanol (M-1), which is mainly excreted as a glucuronide conjugate. Sarpogrelate was also directly glucuronidated to an O-acyl glucuronide and a N-glucuronide by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) in human liver microsomes (HLMs). Since M-1 is pharmacologically more active than sarpogrelate, we examined glucuronidation of this metabolite in HLMs and characterized the UGTs responsible for M-1 glucuronidation. Diastereomers of O-glucuronide (SMG1 and SMG3) and a N-glucuronide (SMG2) were identified by incubation of M-1 with HLMs in the presence of uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA), and their structures were confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry analyses. Two O-glucuronides were identified as chiral isomers: SMG1 as R-isomer and SMG3 as S-isomer. Using recombinant UGT enzymes, we determined that SMG1 and SMG3 were predominantly catalyzed by UGT1A9 and UGT2B4, respectively, whereas SMG2 was generated by UGT1A4. In addition, significant correlations were noted between the SMG1 formation rate and propofol glucuronidation (a marker reaction of UGT1A9; r = 0.6269, P < 0.0031), and between the SMG2 formation rate and trifluoperazine glucuronidation (a marker reaction of UGT1A4; r = 0.6623, P < 0.0015) in a panel of HLMs. Inhibition of SMG1, SMG2, and SMG3 formation by niflumic acid, hecogenin, and fluconazole further substantiated the involvement of UGT1A9, UGT1A4, and UGT2B4, respectively. These findings collectively indicate that UGT1A4, UGT1A9, and UGT2B4 are the major UGT isoforms responsible for glucuronidation of M-1, an active metabolite of sarpogrelate.
20355173	Terbutaline sulfoconjugate: characterization and urinary excretion monitored by LC/ESI-MS/MS.	Terbutaline is a fast-acting beta(2)-adrenergic agonist used in the treatment of obstructive pulmonary diseases. Doping control for beta(2)-agonists, which are forbidden in sports by the World Anti-doping Agency (WADA), is performed in screening by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry after hydrolysis of phase-II metabolites. In this study, the mono-sulfoconjugated phase-II metabolite of terbutaline was synthesized and the chemical structure was characterized by (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry and high resolution/high accuracy Orbitrap mass spectrometry. The metabolite was designated as the phenolic esterified compound, which has been mentioned in most literature reports but has not been verified so far. The benzylic esterified compound was also synthesized and characterized by high-resolution/high accuracy Orbitrap mass spectrometry but was not detectable in urine samples from an excretion study performed after a single application of one terbutaline capsule (7.5 mg terbutaline sulfate salt). The phenolic sulfate of terbutaline was detected for two to four days after administration, whereas the unchanged terbutaline was detected for four to five days. A glucuronidated, disulfated or trisulfated phase-II metabolite of terbutaline was not found. The measurement of phase-II metabolites is planned to be incorporated into existing screening procedures to allow a faster sample preparation.
2743709	Disposition of perphenazine is related to polymorphic debrisoquin hydroxylation in human beings.	The pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of 6 mg perphenazine was studied in a group of six slow and six rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin. Peak serum concentrations of perphenazine were significantly higher in slow hydroxylators than they were in rapid hydroxylators (2.4 +/- 0.6 versus 0.7 +/- 0.3 nmol/L, p less than 0.001). The AUC(0-12) was also higher in slow hydroxylators than it was in rapid hydroxylators (18.5 +/- 6.2 versus 4.5 +/- 2.5 nmol.L-1.hr, p less than 0.001). The data suggest that the disposition of the antipsychotic drug perphenazine covaries with polymorphic debrisoquin hydroxylation.
20926620	Toxicological evaluation of acyl glucuronides of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs using human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase and human hepatocytes.	The chemical reactivity of acyl glucuronide (AG) has been thought to be associated with the toxic properties of drugs containing carboxylic acid moieties, but there has been no direct evidence that AG formation was related to the toxicity. In the present study, the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of AGs were investigated. Human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells stably expressing UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A3 (HEK/UGT1A3) were constructed to assess the cytotoxicity of AGs, and HEK/UGT1A4 cells were also used as a negative reference. After exposure to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as naproxen (1 mM), diclofenac (0.1 mM), ketoprofen (1 mM), or ibuprofen (1 mM) for 24 h, HEK/UGT1A3 cells produced AG in a time-dependent manner. However, HEK/UGT1A4 cells hardly produced AG. The cytotoxicity of HEK/UGT1A3 cells was not increased compared with that of HEK/UGT1A4 cells. In addition, the AG formed in NSAID-treated human hepatocytes was decreased from one-third to one-ninth by treatment with (-)-borneol, an inhibitor of acyl glucuronidation, but the cytotoxicity was increased. These results indicated that AG formation reflected the detoxification process in human hepatocytes. Furthermore, the possibility of genotoxicity from the AG formed in NSAID-treated HEK/UGT cells was investigated by the comet assay, and DNA damage was not detected in any HEK/UGT cell lines. In conclusion, the in vitro cytotoxic and genotoxic effects of the AGs of NSAIDs were investigated and AG was not found to be a causal factor in the toxicity.
19709934	Rapid and sensitive ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the novel anticancer agent PR-104 and its major metabolites in human plasma: Application to a pharmacokinetic study.	PR-104 is a dinitrobenzamide mustard currently in clinical trial as a hypoxia-activated prodrug. It is converted systemically to the corresponding alcohol, PR-104A, which is activated by nitroreduction to the hydroxylamine (PR-104H) and amine (PR-104M). PR-104A is also metabolised to the O-glucuronide (PR-104G), and by oxidative debromoethylation to the semi-mustard PR-104S. We now report a validated ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method for the determination of these metabolites in human plasma. Plasma proteins were precipitated with acidified methanol and the supernatant diluted into water. Aliquots were analysed by UHPLC-MS/MS using a Zorbax Eclipse XDB-C18 Rapid Resolution HT (50mmx2.1mm, 1.8microm) column and gradient of acetonitrile and 0.01% formic acid with a 6min run time. The method had a linear range of 0.1-50microM for PR-104, PR-104A and PR-104G, 0.05-5microM for PR-104H, 0.025-2.5microM for PR-104M and 0.01-1microM for PR-104S. The intra-day and inter-day precision and accuracy were within 14%. The extraction recovery of all analytes was over 87%. The validated method was illustrated by using it to study the pharmacokinetics of PR-104 and its metabolites in a human patient.
15175893	Differences in the induction of cytochrome P450 3A4 by taxane anticancer drugs, docetaxel and paclitaxel, assessed employing primary human hepatocytes.	The induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 by drugs and other xenobiotics is a common cause of serious drug interactions. The aim of this study was to comparatively examine the effects of paclitaxel and docetaxel, two structurally related taxane anticancer agents, on the activity and expression of hepatic CYP3A4. Employing primary cultures of human hepatocytes from multiple donors, we investigated the differences in the magnitude of CYP3A4 induction and relative accumulation of paclitaxel and docetaxel. The CYP3A4 activity of intact hepatocytes was measured as the rate of testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation. The CYP3A4-specific immunoreactive protein and mRNA levels were measured employing Western blot and Northern blot analysis, respectively. Furthermore, employing cell-based reporter gene assay in CV-1 cells, we evaluated the capacity of paclitaxel and docetaxel to activate human pregnane X receptor (hPXR), an orphan nuclear receptor that plays a key role in the transcriptional regulation of CYP3A4. In concurrence with previous reports, we observed that paclitaxel potently induced CYP3A4 activity and expression in hepatocytes treated for 48-96 h. However, docetaxel did not increase the activity or the CYP3A4 immunoreactive protein levels for treatment periods up to 96 h. A marginal increase in the CYP3A4 mRNA levels was observed in cells treated with higher levels (5 and 10 microM) of docetaxel. Furthermore, while paclitaxel effectively activated hPXR (the half-maximal effective concentration, EC50, being about 5.2 microM), docetaxel weakly activated hPXR, and moreover the activation occurred only at high concentrations relative to paclitaxel. A comparison of the cellular concentrations of paclitaxel and docetaxel, in the cell culture models employed for evaluating CYP3A4 induction and hPXR activation, revealed that the intracellular paclitaxel levels were three-fold higher than that of docetaxel. Thus, it appears that both pharmacokinetic (drug concentration) and pharmacodynamic differences (hPXR activation) may account for the observed differences in CYP3A induction by paclitaxel and docetaxel. Our studies suggest that docetaxel has markedly reduced propensity to cause drug interactions that may entail hepatic CYP3A4 induction.
11258981	Reactive nitrogen oxygen species metabolize N-acetylbenzidine.	A close association has been reported for certain types of cancers influenced by aromatic amines and infection/inflammation. Reactive nitric oxygen species (RNOS), components of the inflammatory response, are bactericidal and tumoricidal, and contribute to the deleterious effects attributed to inflammation on normal tissues. This study assessed the possible transformation of the aromatic amine N-acetylbenzidine (ABZ) by RNOS. RNOS were generated by various conditions to react with ABZ, and samples were evaluated by HPLC. Conditions which generate nitrogen dioxide radical (NO(2)(-) + myeloperoxidase + H(2)O(2), ONOO(-), and NO(2)(-) + HOCl) produced primarily a single new product termed 3'-nitro-ABZ. The myeloperoxidase-catalyzed reaction with 0.3 mM NO(2)(-) was completely inhibited by 1 mM cyanide, and not effected by 100 mM chloride with or without 1 mM taurine. In contrast, conditions which generate N(2)O(3), such as spermine NONOate, did not produce 3'-nitro-ABZ, but rather two compounds termed 4'-OH-AABP and AABP. (1)H NMR and mass spectrometry identified 3'-nitro-ABZ as 3'-nitro-N-acetylbenzidine, 4'-OH-AABP as 4'-OH-4-acetylaminobiphenyl, and AABP as 4-acetylaminobiphenyl. Human polymorphonuclear neutrophils incubated with [(3)H]ABZ and stimulated with beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate produced 3'-nitro-ABZ in the presence of NO(2)(-) (0.1-1 mM). Neutrophil 3'-nitro-ABZ formation was verified by mass spectrometry and was consistent with myeloperoxidase oxidation of NO(2)(-). The results demonstrate that ABZ forms unique products in the presence of nitrosating and nitrating RNOS, which could influence the carcinogenic process and serve as biomarkers for these reactive species.
15018994	Chemical and enzymatic stability evaluation of lipoamino acid esters of idebenone.	Lipophilic conjugates of idebenone (IDE) with short-chain alkylamino acids were previously synthesized and evaluated in vitro for their antioxidant properties. In this study, their susceptibility to chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis was evaluated. Results indicated that these derivatives release the parent drug quantitatively via enzymatic hydrolysis by serum and liver esterases, with a cleavage rate related to the length of the alkyl side chain. Consequently, the present lipoamino acid conjugates of IDE are prodrugs and their in vivo effects are mediated through the parent compound released in the body.
1686125	Metabolic disposition of enciprazine, a non-benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug, in rat, dog and man.	1. The excretion and metabolism of enciprazine, an anxiolytic drug, was examined in rat, dog and man. 2. In rats and dogs that received 14C-enciprazine dihydrochloride orally and by i.v. injection, the drug was well absorbed. Radioactivity was excreted predominantly in the faeces of rats, equally in urine and faeces of dogs, and to a major extent in human urine. 3. Metabolic profiles, which were evaluated in urine and in rat bile, were similar following oral and i.v. dosing to rats and dogs. 4. Unchanged drug was not detected in rat, dog or human excreta. Glucuronide conjugates of 4-hydroxyenciprazine, m-desmethylenciprazine, p-desmethylenciprazine and enciprazine were detected in the excreta of all three species. A glycol metabolite was present only in rat bile and human urine. A metabolite desmethylated in the phenyl ring of the phenylpiperazine moiety also appeared to be present only in human urine. 5. Structural confirmation of the major metabolites in human urine and rat bile was accomplished by h.p.l.c.-mass spectrometry.
22554311	Kinetics and metabolism of fomepizole in healthy humans.	Fomepizole, a potent inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase, has replaced ethanol as antidote for methanol and ethylene glycol intoxications because of a longer duration of action and fewer adverse effects. Prior human studies have indicated that single doses of fomepizole are eliminated by Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but two studies in poisoned patients have suggested that first order elimination occurs after multiple doses. Because of the contrast in fomepizole kinetics among existing studies and the lack of information regarding its metabolism in humans, kinetic and metabolic studies were conducted after single doses and after multiple oral doses in healthy human subjects. In a single-dose, crossover study, healthy humans received fomepizole IV or orally (7 mg/kg). Also to define the metabolism and kinetics of fomepizole when administered over the presumed antidotal period, subjects were divided into three groups, which were given oral loading doses of 10-15 mg/kg, followed by supplemental doses of 3-10 mg/kg/12 h through 96 hours. The single dose study confirmed that fomepizole was eliminated by saturable, nonlinear kinetics, primarily by metabolism, and subsequent renal excretion of the metabolite 4-carboxypyrazole (4-CP). In the multi-dose study, the zero order elimination rate of fomepizole increased with increasing duration of treatment (from mean of 3 mol/L/h after first dose to 14 mol/L/h after 72 hours). Consistent with the enhanced elimination of fomepizole, the rate of urinary excretion of 4-CP increased with time. After 96 hours, fomepizole elimination apparently changed to first order kinetics with a t() of 1.5-2 hours. The results suggest that fomepizole induces its own metabolism via cytochrome P-450, leading to enhanced fomepizole elimination and 4-CP excretion. Thus, to maintain relatively constant plasma levels of fomepizole during therapy, increased supplemental doses at about 36-48 hours are needed to overcome the increased elimination of fomepizole. As such, these kinetic evaluations in healthy humans support the current dosing recommendations for fomepizole.
12814962	Eletriptan metabolism by human hepatic CYP450 enzymes and transport by human P-glycoprotein.	"Reaction phenotyping" studies were performed with eletriptan (ETT) to determine its propensity to interact with coadministered medications. Its ability to serve as a substrate for human P-glycoprotein (P-gp) was also investigated since a central mechanism of action has been proposed for this "triptan" class of drug. In studies with a characterized bank of human liver microsome preparations, a good correlation (r2 = 0.932) was obtained between formation of N-desmethyl eletriptan (DETT) and CYP3A4-catalyzed testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation. DETT was selected to be monitored in our studies since it represents a significant ETT metabolite in humans, circulating at concentrations 10 to 20% of those observed for parent drug. ETT was metabolized to DETT by recombinant CYP2D6 (rCYP2D6) and rCYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by rCYP2C9 and rCYP2C19. The metabolism of ETT to DETT in human liver microsomes was markedly inhibited by troleandomycin, erythromycin, miconazole, and an inhibitory antibody to CYP3A4, but not by inhibitors of other major P450 enzymes. ETT had little inhibitory effect on any of the P450 enzymes investigated. ETT was determined to be a good substrate for human P-gp in vitro. In bidirectional transport studies across LLC-MDR1 and LLC-Mdr1a cell monolayers, ETT had a BA/AB transport ratio in the range 9 to 11. This finding had significance in vivo since brain exposure to ETT was reduced 40-fold in Mdr1a+/+ relative to Mdr1a-/- mice. ETT metabolism to DETT is therefore catalyzed primarily by CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations are expected to be increased when coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp activity.
21194604	Pharmacokinetics and safety of aclidinium bromide, a muscarinic antagonist, in adults with normal or impaired renal function: A phase I, open-label, single-dose clinical trial.	Aclidinium bromide is an inhaled, long-acting muscarinic antagonist currently in development for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Renal impairment may affect drug clearance. This study was conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters, safety, and tolerability of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites in patients with normal and impaired renal function to determine whether dosing adjustments are required when renal dysfunction is present. This was a Phase I, open-label, single-center, single-dose clinical trial conducted in Munich, Germany. Adults with varying degrees of renal function were assigned to 4 groups (n = 6 for each) based on creatinine clearance, including normal renal function (>80 mL/ min), mild renal insufficiency (>50-80 mL/min), moderate renal insufficiency (>30-50 mL/min), and severe renal insufficiency (<30 mL/min). Single doses of aclidinium bromide 400 g were administered using a multidose dry powder inhaler. Blood and urine samples were obtained before dosing and at various time points up to 48 hours after dosing to analyze the PK parameters of aclidinium bromide and its metabolites. Plasma PK Parameters were AUC(t), MJC() C(max), T(max), t() CL/F and apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase Xz; urinary parameters were the amount of aclidinium or acid or alcohol metabolite excreted in urine, the percentage of the dose excreted in urine (fe), and renal clearance (CL(R)). Tolerability was assessed using physical examination, vital signs, 12-lead ECG recordings, laboratory tests, and adverse-event (AE) reports. The Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to compare the median PK values between the normal and impaired renal function groups. Pearson correlation coefficients and linear regression models were used to analyze the relationship between creatinine clearance and AUC() and between creatinine clearance and CL(R) for aclidinium and its metabolites. A total of 16 men and 8 women were included in the study. All participants were white; mean (SD) age was 55 (10.7) years and weight was 70.8 (9.2) kg. Aclidinium Cmax was observed in plasma by 5 minutes after dosing (ie, median Tmax) and did not differ significantly among the renal function groups. Plasma concentrations of aclidinium declined after reaching Cmax, with median t() values ranging from 2.07 to 4.18 hours across all renal function groups. Most of the individual t() values were between 1.5 and 3.5 hours, regardless of the degree of renal insufficiency. No significant relationship between AUC()) and creatinine clearance was observed (Pearson correlation coefficient = -0.0446; P = NS). Urinary excretion of aclidinium was very low, with a mean 0.090% (median 0.078%) of the dose recovered from the urine in participants with normal renal function. Eight AEs were reported in 7 participants after drug administration; all were mild to moderate in severity and resolved spontaneously. There were no serious drug-related AEs and no deaths. The plasma PK parameters of aclidinium bromide were not significantly altered after a single inhaled dose of aclidinium bromide 400 g in this small group of patients with various degrees of impaired renal function. The very low urinary excretion of aclidinium in all renal function groups indicates that renal function plays a minor role in aclidinium plasma clearance. Aclidinium appeared well tolerated in the population studied. These results suggest that aclidinium dose adjustment on the basis of renal function may not be necessary.
16580901	MDR1 genotype is associated with hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 basal and induction phenotype.	Variant cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 alleles cannot explain human variation in CYP3A4 expression. This study investigated whether common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1), encoding P-glycoprotein, or the pregnane X receptor (PXR) were associated with basal or inducible CYP3A4 expression. MDR1 G2677T and C3435T SNPs and a PXR 6-base pair (bp) deletion were genotyped in the deoxyribonucleic acid from 144 human livers in 3 cohorts each phenotyped for basal or rifampin (INN, rifampicin)-inducible hepatic CYP3A4 expression (or both) and in 57 human small bowel biopsy specimens from 3 cohorts each phenotyped for either basal or rifampin-induced CYP3A4 expression (or both). Hepatic CYP3A4 expression/function was significantly higher in persons homozygous for the MDR1 2677T (Ser893) allele compared with persons homozygous for 2677G (Ala893) in all 3 hepatic cohorts. For example, homozygous MDR1 2677 TT livers had higher midazolam hydroxylase activity than homozygous 2677 GG livers (1831 +/- 1336 pmol x min(-1) x mg protein(-1) versus 1060 +/- 552 pmol x min(-1) x mg protein(-1), P = .03). In 2 of the 3 groups the association was observed in men but not in women. For example, homozygous MDR1 2677 TT male hepatocytes had significantly higher testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity compared with homozygous 2677 GG livers (0.120 +/- 0.06 pmol x min(-1) x mg protein(-1) versus 0.069 +/- 0.04 pmol x min(-1) x mg protein(-1), P = .0002). Conversely, rifampin induction of testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation in primary human hepatocytes was significantly higher in persons homozygous for 2677G (12.0 +/- 5.7-fold) compared with MDR1 homozygous TT carriers (7.3 +/- 4.6-fold) (P = .01). Suggestive evidence for higher CYP3A4 expression in MDR1 2677T carriers was also observed in human intestines. CYP3A4 expression was also related to a 6-bp deletion in PXR in 2 of the liver cohorts. Two-factor ANOVA analysis revealed a significant interaction between the MDR1 2677 SNP and the PXR 6-bp deletion influencing CYP3A4 expression (P = .007). Individuals homozygous for the MDR1 2677T allele show enhanced constitutive CYP3A4 expression in the liver and intestine, as compared with those homozygous for the MDR1 2677G allele, particularly in men. Conversely, the magnitude of CYP3A4 induction by rifampin is greater in persons with the MDR1 2677G allele and is inversely related to baseline CYP3A4 expression. MDR1 likely influences basal CYP3A4 expression by limiting the intracellular concentration of an endogenous regulator. MDR1 genotype may be a useful predictor of basal CYP3A4 and the extent of some CYP3A4-mediated drug interactions in humans. Moreover, the influence of MDR1 genotype on CYP3A4 expression adds additional complexity to determining the relative contribution of the MDR1 alleles to the disposition of substrates shared by CYP3A4 and MDR1/P-glycoprotein.
11762563	Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of buspirone during oral administration to children and adolescents with anxiety disorder and normal healthy adults.	A 21-day, open-label, multisite, dose escalation study comprising three demographic groups (children, adolescents, and adults) was performed to determine the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of orally administered buspirone. Thirteen children and 12 adolescents with anxiety disorder and 14 normal healthy adults were escalated from 5 to 30 mg buspirone bid over the 3-week study. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that buspirone was rapidly absorbed in all study groups, reaching peak levels at about 1 hour after administration. Peak plasma buspirone concentrations (Cmax) were highest in children and lowest in adults at all three dose levels (7.5, 15, 30 mg bid). However, 1-pyrimidinylpiperazine (1-PP), the primary metabolite of buspirone, exhibited a different plasma concentration-time profile; Cmax was significantly higher in children than in either adolescents or adults at all concentrations. In addition, TAUC0-T for 1-PP was significantly higher in the children cohort relative to adolescents and adults. Buspirone was generally safe and well tolerated at doses up to 30 mg bid in adolescents and adults and most of the children. The most frequently reported adverse events in children and adolescents were lightheadedness (68%), headache (48%), and dyspepsia (20%); 2 children withdrewfrom the study at the higher doses (15 mg and 30 mg bid) due to adverse effects. In adults, the most common adverse effect was somnolence (21.4%); lightheadedness, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea were also reported, although these were mild in intensity.
19799546	Revisiting the metabolism of ketoconazole using accurate mass.	The microsomal metabolism of ketoconazole is revisited using accurate mass LC/MS(n) and deuterium labelling. Structures for sixteen metabolites are proposed from rat and human microsomal metabolism of commercial ketoconazole. Thirteen of the proposed structures are well determined and consistent with all data; five of the proposed structures are less certain. Ten of the metabolites are described for the first time. Reaction phenotyping shows that most of the metabolites arise from CYP3A4, the enzyme known to be well inhibited by ketoconazole.
16432273	Ginkgo biloba does not alter clearance of flurbiprofen, a cytochrome P450-2C9 substrate.	The effect of Ginkgo biloba on the activity of CYP2C9, the isoform responsible for S-warfarin clearance, was assessed in 11 healthy volunteers who received single 100-mg doses of flurbiprofen, a probe substrate for CYP2C9. Subjects also received either a standardized G biloba leaf preparation (Ginkgold, 3 doses of 120 mg) or matching placebo in a randomized, double-blind, 2-way crossover study. Mean kinetic variables for flurbiprofen with either placebo or G biloba were elimination half-life, 3.9 versus 3.5 hours; total AUC, 57 versus 55 microg/mL h; and oral clearance, 32.9 versus 31.6 mL/min. None of these differences was significant. Based on highperformance liquid chromatography analysis, each 60-mg Ginkgold tablet contained 6.6 mug of amentoflavone and 61.2 microg of quercetin, both previously identified as CYP2C9 inhibitors. These amounts were apparently too low to inhibit CYP2C9 function in vivo. The results confirm previous controlled clinical studies showing no effect of ginkgo on the kinetics or dynamics of warfarin.
12954377	Liquid chromatographic determination of the glutathione conjugate and ring-opened metabolites formed from coumarin epoxidation.	Species differences in the biotransformation of coumarin are thought to play an important role in its toxicity. Since the putative toxic metabolite is coumarin 3,4-epoxide (CE), methods to measure the metabolites of CE were developed. The glutathione (GSH) conjugate of CE (CE-SG) at the 3-position was purified by reversed-phase (RP)-high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and characterized by mass spectrometry (MS) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). An RP-HPLC method was developed to quantify CE-SG in hepatic microsomal mixtures and a separate RP-HPLC method was also developed to quantify the three ring-opened coumarin metabolites; o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (o-HPAA), o-hydroxyphenylethanol (o-HPE) and o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (o-HPA) in hepatic microsomal mixtures. Detection limits for all four products of coumarin epoxidation exceeded 3.5 ng/ml and recovery from hepatic microsomal mixtures was essentially quantitative with RSD values less than 8%. Species differences in o-HPA detoxification were consistent with sensitivity to coumarin, thereby demonstrating that these methods have utility in addressing the fate of CE and its contribution to toxicity.
1157572	Pharmacokinetic studies with mecillinam and pivmecillinam.	Mecillinam (FL 1060) is a new beta-lactam antibiotic particularly active against gram-negative organisms. When given intravenously, very high serum levels were maintained for a short period of time. Lower peak levels but comparable bioavailability were obtained after intramuscular administration. Gastrointestinal absorption of mecillinam is poor, and for effective oral therapy the drug must be given in the form of its pivaloyl-oxymethyl ester pivmecillinam (FL 1039) which is well absorbed and rapidly transformed to mecillinam by enzymatic hydrolysis in the body. Urinary recovery of mecillinam after orally administered pivmecillinam was 45% in the first 6 h compared with 55 and 59% after mecillinam given by the intravenous and intramuscular routes, respectively. By increasing the dose the orally active ester produced proportionally higher levels of mecillinam, and the area under the serum curve was doubled with the dose. Higher peak levels and prolonged maintenance of high serum concentrations were seen after administration of pivmecillinam with probenecid. The presence of food in the stomach did not influence the absorption of pivmecillinam to any great extent.
15113171	Studies of the in vitro intestinal metabolism of isoflavones aid in the identification of their urinary metabolites.	Soy isoflavones have recently gained considerable interest due to their possible health benefits. However, detailed studies on the metabolism of isoflavones are lacking. The aims of the investigation presented here were (1) to study the in vitro intestinal metabolism of isoflavones and their hydroxylated analogues 3'-OH-daidzein, 6-OH-daidzein, 8-OH-daidzein, and 3'-OH-genistein and (2) to characterize the structures of some earlier identified urinary metabolites of soy isoflavones, for which no authentic reference compounds have been available. Isoflavone standards (1-2 mg) were fermented with human fecal flora (16.7%) for 24 h. Metabolites formed during the fermentation were tentatively identified by interpretation of the mass spectra of trimethylsilylated compounds obtained by GC-MS. Compounds having hydroxyl groups at 5-position (i.e., genistein and 3'-OH-genistein) were completely converted to metabolites that could not be detected by the methods used in this study. The metabolism of daidzein and its hydroxylated analogues, 3'-OH-daidzein, 6-OH-daidzein, and 8-OH-daidzein, occurred to a much lesser extent. Minor amounts of reduced metabolites (i.e., isoflavanones and alpha-methyldeoxybenzoins) of these compounds were tentatively identified in fermentation extracts. The retention times and the mass spectra of reduced isoflavone metabolites, obtained from in vitro fermentations of pure compounds, were utilized to identify unknown urinary metabolites of soy isoflavones. Four novel isoflavone metabolites were identified in human urine collected after soy supplementation: 3' '-OH-O-desmethylangolensin, 3',4',7-trihydroxyisoflavanone, 4',7,8-trihydroxyisoflavanone, and 4',6,7-trihydroxyisoflavanone.
17484515	Effect of valerian, valerian/hops extracts, and valerenic acid on glucuronidation in vitro.	Valerian preparations alone or in combination with hops are popular over-the-counter products used for sleep disturbances or anxiety. Therefore, it is important to characterize the effect of these products on the activity of human drug-metabolizing enzymes. The inhibitory effects of valerian and valerian/hops extracts as well as valerenic acid (a major constituent of valerian) on glucuronidation were evaluated in human liver microsomes and with expressed uridine 5'-diphosphate (UDP)-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT). Methanolic extracts of two herbal preparations caused significant reductions in the rate of formation of acetaminophen, oestradiol, morphine, and testosterone glucuronides. Oestradiol glucuronidation at the 3-hydroxy position was inhibited by nearly 87% in microsomal incubations. In addition, marked reductions in UGT1A1 and UGT2B7 activities were observed in the presence of the herbal extracts using oestradiol and morphine as probe substrates, respectively. Valerenic acid also demonstrated significant inhibitory effects on the glucuronidation of acetaminophen, oestradiol, and morphine with both microsomes and expressed UGTs. The relatively low IC50 values obtained for valerenic acid in microsomal incubations may indicate that this essential oil contributes to the effects observed with herbal extracts in inhibiting glucuronidation in vitro. Overall, these findings suggest that valerian-containing products may interfere with the glucuronidation of endo- and xenobiotics.
20690782	Population pharmacokinetic modelling of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide by total phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitory activity and development of a population pharmacodynamic-adverse event model.	Roflumilast is an oral, selective phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitor in development for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Both roflumilast and its metabolite roflumilast N-oxide have anti-inflammatory properties that contribute to overall pharmacological activity. To model the pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide, evaluate the influence of potential covariates, use the total PDE4 inhibitory activity (tPDE4i) concept to estimate the combined inhibition of PDE4 by roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide, and use individual estimates of tPDE4i to predict the occurrence of adverse events (AEs) in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD. We modelled exposure to roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide (21 studies provided the index dataset and five separate studies provided the validation dataset), extended the models to COPD (using data from two studies) and assessed the robustness of the parameter estimates. A parametric bootstrap estimation was used to quantify tPDE4i in subpopulations. We established logistic regression models for each AE occurring in >2% of patients in a placebo-controlled trial that achieved a p-value of <0.2 in a permutation test. The exposure variables were the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of roflumilast, the AUC of roflumilast N-oxide and tPDE4i. Individual AUC values were estimated from population models. Roflumilast pharmacokinetics were modelled with a two-compartment model with first-order absorption including a lag time. A one-compartment model with zero-order absorption was used for roflumilast N-oxide. The final models displayed good descriptive and predictive performance with no appreciable systematic trends versus time, dose or study. Posterior predictive checks and robustness analysis showed that the models adequately described the pharmacokinetic parameters and the covariate effects on disposition. For roflumilast, the covariates of sex, smoking and race influenced clearance; and food influenced the absorption rate constant and lag time. For roflumilast N-oxide, age, sex and smoking influenced clearance; age, sex and race influenced the fraction metabolized; bodyweight influenced the apparent volume of distribution; and food influenced the apparent duration of formation. The COPD covariate increased the central volume of distribution of roflumilast by 184% and reduced its clearance by 39%; it also reduced the estimated volume of distribution of roflumilast N-oxide by 21% and reduced its clearance by 7.9%. Compared with the reference population (male, non-smoking, White, healthy, 40-year-old subjects), the relative geometric mean [95% CI] tPDE4i was higher in patients with COPD (12.6% [-6.6, 35.6]), women (19.3% [8.2, 31.6]), Black subjects (42.1% [16.4, 73.4]), Hispanic subjects (28.2% [4.1, 57.9]) and older subjects (e.g. 8.3% [-11.2, 32.2] in 60-year-olds), and was lower in smokers (-19.1% [-34.0, -0.7]). Among all possible subgroups in this analysis, the subgroup with maximal tPDE4i comprised elderly, Black, female, non-smoking, COPD patients (tPDE4i 217% [95% CI 107, 437] compared with the value in the reference population). The probability of a patient with tPDE4i at the population geometric mean [95% CI] was 13.0% [7.5, 18.5] for developing diarrhoea, 6.0% [2.6, 9.4] for nausea and 5.1% [1.9, 8.6] for headache. Covariate effects have a limited impact on tPDE4i. There was a general association between tPDE4i and the occurrence of common AEs in patients with COPD.
11523063	Improved RP-HPLC determination of quinine in plasma and whole blood stored on filter paper.	Analysis of quinine in plasma and whole blood samples dried on filter paper is described. Sample preparation involves liquid extraction of plasma and whole blood from the filter paper and subsequent solid-phase extraction using C8 Bond Elut cartridges. A reverse-phase liquid chromatography system with UV detection and fluorescence detection was used. The analytical characteristics of the method are reported, with a quantification limit of 0.1 microg mL(-1) and within an assay coefficient of variation of 5.6-8.4% in plasma and 6.5-12% in whole blood. Representative chromatograms are shown as a function of time for samples from human subjects after ingestion of a single 400-mg dose of quinine sulphate. Quinidine, dihydroquinine and metabolites are well separated from quinine with a resolution of above 1 (Rs>1).
16242387	Metabolism of isometheptene in human urine and analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in doping control.	A study of the metabolism of isometheptene, an antispasmodic drug, in man and comparison with heptaminol metabolism, is presented in this paper. Isometheptene and two metabolites were detected in human urine after oral administration of a tablet containing isometheptene mucate. The urine level of the parent drug, which is excreted during the first 24 h, was determined using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, after alkaline extraction with organic solvent. A minor metabolite of isometheptene was converted to heptaminol in vitro under the acidic hydrolysis conditions used for the screening procedure of stimulants and narcotics in doping control analysis.
17089164	Tissue distribution in mice and metabolism in murine and human liver of apigenin and tricin, flavones with putative cancer chemopreventive properties.	The flavones apigenin and tricin, which occur in leafy vegetables and rice bran, respectively, possess cancer chemopreventive properties in preclinical rodent models. Their pharmacology is only poorly understood. We compared their tissue levels in mice in vivo and their metabolism in liver fractions in vitro. Mice received apigenin or tricin (0.2%) with their diet for 5-7 days, and flavone levels were compared in the plasma, liver and gastrointestinal mucosa using HPLC-UV. Flavone metabolism was investigated in murine and human liver microsomes or cytosol in vitro co-incubated with uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid or 3'-phosphoadenosine-5' phosphosulfate. Flavone metabolites were characterized by on-line HPLC-mass spectrometry. After dietary administration of flavones for 7 days, levels of tricin in plasma, liver and mucosa exceeded those of apigenin by 350, 33 and 100%, respectively. Apigenin was more rapidly glucuronidated than tricin in liver microsomes, whilst tricin underwent swifter sulfonation than apigenin in liver cytosol. For either flavone the rate of glucuronidation was much faster than that of sulfonation. Flavone monoglucuronides and monosulfates were identified as metabolites in microsomal and cytosolic incubations, respectively. When consumed with the diet in mice tricin seems to be more available than apigenin in blood and tissues. Differences in their glucuronidation may account for their differential availability. Thus tricin may have a pharmacokinetic advantage over apigenin. This type of information may help decide which flavonoids to select for clinical development.
8578766	Anti-peptide antibodies to the P4502D subfamily in rat, dog and man.	1. In order to obtain specific antibodies of the P4502D subfamily, we generated two anti-peptide antibodies against synthetic peptides, DPAQPPRD (peptide A) and DPTQPPRH (peptide B). The sequence of peptide A occurs in rat P4502D2, P4502D4 and human P4502D6, whereas the sequence of peptide B occurs in the dog P4502D subfamily. These sequences are closely related to an epitope of liver/kidney microsomal autoimmune hepatitis. 2. In immunoblotting studies, the anti-peptide antibody against peptide A recognized a 49-KDa protein in microsomes derived from human lymphoblasts expressing P4502D6 and rat liver. It showed no crossreactivity with microsomes from dog liver. In contrast, the anti-peptide antibody against peptide B recognized a 49-KDa protein only in microsomes of dog liver. These indicate that each anti-peptide antibody has the specificity for the respective sequences of the members of P4502D subfamily, with the species investigated herein. 3. In immunoinhibition studies, the anti-peptide antibodies against peptide B inhibited bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation and propranolol 4,5-hydroxylation, which are mediated by the dog P4502D subfamily. These data suggest that the anti-peptide antibodies against peptide B bind to the native and denatured forms of the P4502D subfamily. 4. The present study has demonstrated that the anti-peptide antibodies against this region are useful for studying the members of the P4502D subfamily.
17038881	Pharmacokinetics of intravenous rifampicin (rifampin) in neonates.	Few reports have addressed neonatal rifampicin plasma concentrations and data on neonatal rifampicin pharmacokinetics are completely lacking. Therefore, plasma concentrations of rifampicin and its main metabolite 25-O-desacetylrifampicin (DES) were measured in 123 surplus plasma samples from routine vancomycin monitoring in 21 neonates using reversed-phase HPLC. Rifampicin peak and trough plasma concentrations were 4.66 +/- 1.47 mg/L and 0.21 +/- 0.20 mg/L, respectively, after a dose of 8.5 +/- 2.1 (mean +/- SD) mg/kg per day. A significant linear relationship between rifampicin dose and peak plasma concentrations was found, but inter-patient variability was high. Pharmacokinetic parameters of rifampicin were calculated according to a one-compartment open model with iterative two-stage Bayesian fitting (MW\PHARM 3.60, Mediware, The Netherlands). First-order elimination constant, volume of distribution corrected for weight, total body clearance corrected for weight (CL/W), and elimination half-life were 0.16 +/- 0.06 h(-1), 1.84 +/- 0.59 L/kg, 0.28 +/- 0.11 Lkg(-1) h(-1), and 4.9 +/- 1.7 h, respectively. A high Pearson correlation was found between CL/W rifampicin and the covariates plasma creatinine and CL/W gentamicin of a preceding gentamicin treatment course, r = 0.728 (n = 17) and r = 0.837 (n = 12), respectively. DES was detected in each plasma sample. Therefore, rifampicin seems to be eliminated by both renal and metabolic pathways in neonates. In 8 study patients, plasma concentrations of rifampicin and DES were measured again after two weeks of therapy. CL/W rifampicin was significantly higher (67 +/- 50%). The authors suggest maintaining the current dose regimen of 10 mg/kg once a day. Because of the large inter-patient variability in rifampicin plasma concentrations and CL/W increase during therapy, the authors suggest monitoring rifampicin peak and trough plasma concentrations to avoid low plasma concentrations. More research is needed to determine well-founded dosing guidelines.
23106612	Investigation of the hepatic glucuronidation pattern of the Fusarium mycotoxin deoxynivalenol in various species.	Deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of the most abundant mycotoxins contaminating food and feed worldwide. Upon absorption, the major portion of the toxin is excreted by humans and animal species as glucuronide. However, consistent in vitro data on DON glucuronidation are lacking. In the present study, the metabolism of DON was investigated using liver microsomes from humans and six different animal species. It was shown that all animal and human liver microsomes led to the formation of up to three different mono-O-glucuronides with significant interspecies differences. While the activity of human liver microsomes was low (0.8 to 2.2 pmolmin(-1)mg(-1)), bovine liver and rat liver microsomes conjugated DON with activities of 525 pmolmin(-1)mg(-1) and 80 pmolmin(-1)mg(-1), respectively.
11196078	Biological monitoring of workers exposed to ethylbenzene and co-exposed to xylene.	Ethylbenzene is an important constituent of widely used solvent mixtures in industry. The objective of the present study was to provide information about biological monitoring of occupational exposure to ethylbenzene, and to review the biological limit values corresponding to the threshold limit value of ethylbenzene. A total of 20 male workers who had been exposed to a mixture of ethylbenzene and xylene, through painting and solvent mixing with commercial xylene in a metal industry, were recruited into this study. Environmental and biological monitoring were performed during an entire week. The urinary metabolites monitored were mandelic acid for ethylbenzene and methylhippuric acid for xylene. Correlations were analyzed between urinary metabolites and environmental exposure for ethylbenzene and xylene. The interaction effects of a binary exposure to ethylbenzene and xylene were also investigated using a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model. The average environmental concentration of organic solvents was 12.77 ppm for xylene, and 3.42 ppm for ethylbenzene. A significant correlation (R2 = 0.503) was found between environmental xylene and urinary methylhippuric acid. Urinary level of methylhippuric acid corresponding to 100 ppm of xylene was 1.96 g/g creatinine in the worker study, whereas it was calculated as 1.55 g/g creatinine by the PBPK model. Urinary level of mandelic acid corresponding to 100 ppm of ethylbenzene was found to be 0.7 g/g creatinine. PBPK results showed that the metabolism of ethylbenzene was highly depressed by co-exposure to high concentrations of xylene leading to a non-linear behavior. At low exposures, both methylhippuric acid and mandelic acid can be used as indicators of commercial xylene exposures. However at higher concentrations mandelic acid cannot be recommended as a biological indicator due to the saturation of mandelic acid produced by the co-exposure to xylene.
15885895	Bioactivation of 3-aminobenzanthrone, a human metabolite of the environmental pollutant 3-nitrobenzanthrone: evidence for DNA adduct formation mediated by cytochrome P450 enzymes and peroxidases.	3-Nitrobenzanthrone (3-NBA) is a suspected human carcinogen found in diesel exhaust and ambient air pollution. The main metabolite of 3-NBA, 3-aminobenzanthrone (3-ABA), was detected in the urine of salt mining workers occupationally exposed to diesel emissions. We evaluated the role of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in the activation of 3-ABA in vivo by treating hepatic cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (POR)-null mice and wild-type littermates intraperitoneally with 0.2 and 2mg/kg body weight of 3-ABA. Hepatic POR-null mice lack POR-mediated CYP enzyme activity in the liver. Using the (32)P-postlabelling method, multiple 3-ABA-derived DNA adducts were observed in liver DNA from wild-type mice, qualitatively similar to those formed in incubations using human hepatic microsomes. The adduct pattern was also similar to those formed by the nitroaromatic counterpart 3-NBA and which derive from reductive metabolites of 3-NBA bound to purine bases in DNA. DNA binding by 3-ABA in the livers of the null mice was undetectable at the lower dose and substantially reduced (by up to 80%), relative to wild-type mice, at the higher dose. These data indicate that POR-mediated CYP enzyme activities are important for the oxidative activation of 3-ABA in livers, confirming recent results indicating that CYP1A1 and -1A2 are mainly responsible for the metabolic activation of 3-ABA in human hepatic microsomes. No difference in DNA binding was found in kidney and bladder between null and wild-type mice, suggesting that cells in these extrahepatic organs have the metabolic capacity to oxidize 3-ABA to species forming the same 3-ABA-derived DNA adducts, independently from the CYP-mediated oxidation in the liver. We determined that different model peroxidases are able to catalyse DNA adduct formation by 3-ABA in vitro. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP), lactoperoxidase (LPO), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and prostaglandin H synthase (PHS) were all effective in activating 3-ABA in vitro, forming DNA adducts qualitatively similar to those formed in vivo in mice treated with 3-ABA and to those found in DNA reacted with N-hydroxy-3-aminobenzanthrone (N-OH-ABA). Collectively, these results suggest that both CYPs and peroxidases may play an important role in metabolizing 3-ABA to reactive DNA adduct forming species.
8844428	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of the enantiomers of cyclophosphamide in serum.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) achiral-chiral coupled assay to measure the serum concentration of the enantiomers of cyclophosphamide is described. The R- and S-enantiomers of cyclophosphamide were quantified using a 5-cm-long C1 Spherisorb 5-microns column, with switching of the eluent containing racemic cyclophosphamide onto a 10-cm-long alpha 1 acid glycoprotein column. The limit of determination was 1.25 mg l-1 for each enantiomer and the ratio of the enantiomers over the range 2.5 to 100 mg l-1 was I. Serum enantiomer concentrations in blood samples taken from patients receiving 0.30 to 0.75 gm-2 of intravenous racemic cyclophosphamide could be measured at least three half-lives post dose. In six patients no significant difference in the clearance of R- and S-cyclophosphamide was found.
15039299	Quantitative contribution of CYP2D6 and CYP3A to oxycodone metabolism in human liver and intestinal microsomes.	Oxycodone undergoes N-demethylation to noroxycodone and O-demethylation to oxymorphone. The cytochrome P450 (P450) isoforms capable of mediating the oxidation of oxycodone to oxymorphone and noroxycodone were identified using a panel of recombinant human P450s. CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 displayed the highest activity for oxycodone N-demethylation; intrinsic clearance for CYP3A5 was slightly higher than that for CYP3A4. CYP2D6 had the highest activity for O-demethylation. Multienzyme, Michaelis-Menten kinetics were observed for both oxidative reactions in microsomes prepared from five human livers. Inhibition with ketoconazole showed that CYP3A is the high affinity enzyme for oxycodone N-demethylation; ketoconazole inhibited >90% of noroxycodone formation at low substrate concentrations. CYP3A-mediated noroxycodone formation exhibited a mean K(m) of 600 +/- 119 microM and a V(max) that ranged from 716 to 14523 pmol/mg/min. Contribution from the low affinity enzyme(s) did not exceed 8% of total intrinsic clearance for N-demethylation. Quinidine inhibition showed that CYP2D6 is the high affinity enzyme for O-demethylation with a mean K(m) of 130 +/- 33 microM and a V(max) that ranged from 89 to 356 pmol/mg/min. Activity of the low affinity enzyme(s) accounted for 10 to 26% of total intrinsic clearance for O-demethylation. On average, the total intrinsic clearance for noroxycodone formation was 8 times greater than that for oxymorphone formation across the five liver microsomal preparations (10.5 microl/min/mg versus 1.5 microl/min/mg). Experiments with human intestinal mucosal microsomes indicated lower N-demethylation activity (20-50%) compared with liver microsomes and negligible O-demethylation activity, which predict a minimal contribution of intestinal mucosa in the first-pass oxidative metabolism of oxycodone.
15141102	Metabolic detoxification determines species differences in coumarin-induced hepatotoxicity.	Hepatotoxicity of coumarin is attributed to metabolic activation to an epoxide intermediate, coumarin 3,4-epoxide (CE). However, whereas rats are most susceptible to coumarin-induced hepatotoxicity, formation of CE is greatest in mouse liver microsomes, a species showing little evidence of hepatotoxicity. Therefore, the present work was designed to test the hypothesis that detoxification of CE is a major determinant of coumarin hepatotoxicity. CE can either rearrange spontaneously to o-hydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (o-HPA) or be conjugated with gluatathione (GSH). o-HPA is hepatotoxic and is further detoxified by oxidation to o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (o-HPAA). In vitro experiments were conducted using mouse liver microsomes to generate a constant amount of CE, and cytosols from F344 rats, B6C3F1 mice, and human liver were used to characterize CE detoxification. All metabolites were quantified by HPLC methods with UV detection. In rats and mice, GSH conjugation occurred non-enzymatically and through glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs), and the kinetics of GSH conjugation were similar in rats and mice. In rat liver cytosol, oxidation of o-HPA to o-HPAA was characterized with a high affinity K(m) of approximately 12 microM, and a V(max) of approximately 1.5 nmol/min/mg protein. In contrast, the K(m) and V(max) for o-HPA oxidation in mouse liver cytosol were approximately 1.7 microM and 5 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively, yielding a total intrinsic clearance through oxidation to o-HPAA that was 20 times higher in mouse than in rats. Human cytosols (two separate pools) detoxified CE through o-HPA oxidation with an apparent K(m) of 0.84 microM and a V(max) of 5.7 nmol/min/mg protein, for a net intrinsic clearance that was more than 50 times higher than the rat. All species also reduced o-HPA to o-hydroxyphenylethanol (o-HPE), but this was only a major reaction in rats. In the presence of a metabolic reaction replete with all necessary cofactors, GSH conjugation accounted for nearly half of all CE metabolites in rat and mouse, whereas the GSH conjugate represented only 10% of the metabolites in human cytosol. In mouse, o-HPAA represented the major ring-opened metabolite, accounting for the remaining 50% of metabolites, and in human cytosol, o-HPAA was the major metabolite, representing nearly 90% of all CE metabolites. In contrast, no o-HPAA was detected in rats, whereas o-HPE represented a major metabolite. Collectively, these in vitro data implicate o-HPA detoxification through oxidation to o-HPAA as the major determinant of species differences in coumarin-induced hepatotoxicity.
21290248	Pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide enantiomers in patients with breast cancer.	Adjuvant chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (CYC) is used for the treatment of breast cancer. CYC is used as a racemic mixture, although preclinical data have demonstrated differences in the efficacy and toxicity of its enantiomers, with (S)-(-)-CYC exhibiting a higher therapeutic index. The present study investigated the enantioselectivity and influence of CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A on the kinetic disposition of CYC in patients with breast cancer. Fifteen patients previously submitted to removal of the tumor and treated with racemic CYC (900 or 1,000mg/m(2)) and epirubicin were included in the study. The in vivo activity of CYP3A was evaluated using midazolam as a marker drug. Serial blood samples were collected up to 24h after administration of the first cycle of CYC. The kinetic disposition of CYC was enantioselective in patients with breast cancer, with plasma accumulation of the (S)-(-)-CYC enantiomer (AUC 195.0 vs. 174.8gh/mL) due to the preferential clearance of the (R)-(+)CYC enantiomer (5.1 vs. 5.7 L/h). Clearance of either CYC enantiomer did not differ between the CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 genotypes or as a function of the in vivo activity of CYP3A evaluated by midazolam clearance. The pharmacokinetics of CYC is enantioselective in patients with breast cancer concomitantly treated with epirubicin and ondansetron. Genotyping or phenotyping did not contribute to adjustment of the CYC dose regimen in patients included in this study.
21457140	Disposition and mass balance of [14C]vernakalant after single intravenous and oral doses in healthy volunteers.	Vernakalant hydrochloride is a novel antiarrhythmic drug for the rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm and prevention of relapse. In this open-label, parallel design study, 8 healthy men received single 240-mg doses of [(14)C]vernakalant hydrochloride, given as a 10-minute intravenous (IV) infusion on day 1, and as an oral gel capsule on day 22. Plasma, urine, and fecal samples were collected for 7 days after dosing to measure vernakalant and its metabolites and to estimate mass balance of total [(14)C] recovery. The disposition and metabolic profile of vernakalant after both IV and oral administration, depended on cytochrome P450 (CYP)2D6 genotype. Vernakalant underwent rapid and extensive distribution during infusion, which resulted in similar maximum plasma concentrations in extensive metabolizers (EMs) and poor metabolizers (PMs) for IV but not oral administration. Vernakalant was metabolized rapidly and extensively to a 4-O-demethylated metabolite with glucuronidation in EMs; direct glucuronidation predominated in PMs. Slower clearance in PMs contributed to 3- and 6-fold higher drug exposure (AUC(0-); IV and oral dosing, respectively). Urinary recovery of unchanged vernakalant was higher in PMs as well. Total [(14)C] was recovered predominantly in urine, while lower levels were recovered in feces. Mass balance was achieved, with a mean recovery of 99.7% of the IV dose and 98.7% of the oral dose, in EMs, and 89.2% and 88.2% of the IV and oral doses, respectively, in PMs. Vernakalant was well tolerated. The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of vernakalant depend on CYP2D6 genotype with more pronounced effects on exposure following oral administration; however, the differences between EMs and PMs are unlikely to be clinically significant following short-term IV infusion.
7791034	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of trazodone and 1-m-chlorophenylpiperazine with ultraviolet and electrochemical detector.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) assay was developed for the determination of trazodone and its metabolite, 1-m-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP), in plasma. The high level of trazodone in plasma was detected by ultraviolet absorbance at 254 nm and the low level of m-CPP in plasma was detected by coulometric electrochemical detection at 840 mV on the series arrangement of two detectors. Pilsicainide as an internal standard for both compounds was monitored by both detectors. Trazodone and m-CPP in plasma were extracted by a rapid and simple procedure based on CN bonded-phase extraction, and C8 reversed-phase HPLC separation. Determination was possible for trazodone in the concentration range 100-2000 ng mL-1 and for m-CPP in the concentration range 5-100 ng mL-1. The recoveries of trazodone and m-CPP added to plasma were 81.0-84.2 and 68.0-73.2%, respectively, with coefficients of variation of less than 7.3 and 8.2%, respectively. The method is applicable to high level monitoring of trazodone and low level monitoring of m-CPP in plasma of healthy volunteers and patients treated with trazodone.
19182438	Polymorphisms in the promoter region of the human class II alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH4) gene affect both transcriptional activity and ethanol metabolism in Japanese subjects.	Class II alcohol dehydrogenase (pi-ADH), encoded by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH4), is considered to contribute to ethanol (EtOH) oxidation in the liver at high concentration. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found in the promoter region of this gene. Analysis of genotype distribution in 102 unrelated Japanese subjects revealed that four loci were in strong linkage disequilibrium and could be classified into three haplotypes. The effects of these polymorphisms on transcriptional activity were investigated in HepG2 cells. Transcriptional activity was significantly higher in cells with the -136A allele than in those with the -136C allele. To investigate whether this difference in transcriptional activity caused a difference in EtOH elimination, previous data on blood EtOH changes after 0.4 g/kg body weight alcohol ingestion were analyzed. When analyzed based on aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 gene (ALDH2) (487)Glu/Lys genotype, the significantly lower level of EtOH at peak in subjects with -136C/A and -136A/A genotype compared with subjects with -136C/C genotype indicated that -136 bp was a suggestive locus for differences in EtOH oxidation. This effect was observed only in subjects with ALDH2 (487)Glu/Glu. These results suggested that the SNP at -136bp in the ADH4 promoter had an effect on transcriptional regulation, and that the higher activity of the -136A allele compared with the -136C allele caused a lower level of blood EtOH after alcohol ingestion; that is, individuals with the -136A allele may consume more EtOH and might have a higher risk for development of alcohol dependence than those without the -136A allele.
19967538	Toxicity against gastric cancer cells by combined treatment with 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin c: implication in oxidative stress.	Combined chemotherapy of 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and mitomycin c (MMC) is clinically used for gastric cancer, but the precise conditions and molecular mechanism of these agents when used together remain unclear. We examined the administration sequence of combining 5FU with MMC to maximize toxicity against a human gastric cancer cell line, and then investigated the possible molecular mechanisms underlying the observed toxic effects. Human gastric cancer MKN45 cells were treated with a combination of 5FU and MMC, and the changes in cell viability and apoptosis-related proteins were determined by a tetrazolium dye-based cytotoxicity assay and Western blot analysis, respectively. The intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were monitored using a fluorescent probe or by a cytochrome c reduction assay. Pretreatment for 24 h with 5FU augmented the toxic effect of MMC in MKN45 cells. The synergic effect was mediated mainly via ROS formation and the p53-dependent apoptotic pathway, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. In vitro experiments using extracts of the treated cells showed superoxide anion generation in a redox cycle of MMC, involving alterations in superoxide dismutase. Pretreatment with 5FU enhanced the MMC-induced toxicity against gastric cancer cells via alterations in antioxidant enzymes with resulting ROS generation. This observation will need confirmation in the clinical setting.
17389084	LC-MS-MS analysis of 2,4-dinitrophenol and its phase I and II metabolites in a case of fatal poisoning.	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) analysis of biological fluids (blood, urine, gastric content, and bile) collected at autopsy in a case of suspected 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) fatal poisoning allowed the determination of DNP and its known metabolites (2-amino-4-nitrophenol and nitro-4-aminophenol). The tentative identification of three conjugated metabolites (DNP glucuronide, DNP sulfate, and 2-amino-4-nitrophenol glucuronide) could be made on the basis of their pseudomolecular ion, isotopic and fragmentation patterns, and retention characteristics. Another DNP metabolite reported in the literature, 2,4-diaminophenol, was not detected in the samples. Postmortem blood concentrations were 48.4 mg/L for DNP and 1.2 mg/L for 2-amino-4-nitrophenol. Gas chromatography-MS screening and quantification in postmortem blood revealed the presence of toxic concentrations of citalopram and its desmethylated metabolite (0.58 and 0.40 mg/L, respectively) and therapeutic or lower than therapeutic levels of olanzapine (0.04 mg/L), desalkylflurazepam (0.02 mg/L), and nordazepam (0.01 mg/L). Based on LC-MS-MS results and on available literature data on DNP poisonings, it was concluded that DNP poisoning played a contributing role, together with citalopram, in the cause of death.
19608694	In vitro inhibition and induction of human liver cytochrome p450 enzymes by milnacipran.	Milnacipran (Savella) inhibits both norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake and is distinguished by a nearly 3-fold greater potency in inhibiting norepinephrine reuptake in vitro compared with serotonin. We evaluated the ability of milnacipran to inhibit and induce human cytochrome P450 enzymes in vitro. In human liver microsomes, milnacipran did not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, or 2D6 (IC(50) >or= 100 microM); whereas, a comparator with dual reuptake properties [duloxetine (Cymbalta)] inhibited CYP2D6 (IC(50) = 7 microM) and CYP2B6 (IC(50) = 15 microM) with a relatively high potency. Milnacipran inhibited CYP3A4/5 in a substrate-dependent manner (i.e., midazolam 1'-hydroxylation IC(50) approximately 30 microM; testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation IC(50) approximately 100 microM); whereas, duloxetine inhibited both CYP3A4/5 activities with equal potency (IC(50) = 37 and 38 microM, respectively). Milnacipran produced no time-dependent inhibition (<10%) of P450 activity, whereas duloxetine produced time-dependent inhibition of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C19, and 3A4/5. To evaluate P450 induction, freshly isolated human hepatocytes (n = 3) were cultured and treated once daily for 3 days with milnacipran (3, 10, and 30 microM), after which microsomal P450 activities were measured. Whereas positive controls (omeprazole, phenobarbital, and rifampin) caused anticipated P450 induction, milnacipran had minimal effect on CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, or 2C19 activity. The highest concentration of milnacipran (30 microM; >10 times plasma C(max)) produced 2.6- and 2.2-fold increases in CYP2B6 and CYP3A4/5 activity (making it 26 and 34% as effective as phenobarbital and rifampin, respectively). Given these results, milnacipran is not expected to cause clinically significant P450 inhibition or induction.
18274961	Preclinical absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) characterization of ICAM1988, an LFA-1/ICAM antagonist, and its prodrug.	Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1988 is a small molecule lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) antagonist being considered for its anti-inflammatory properties. Following intravenous administration of ICAM1988, clearances in mice, rats, dogs, and monkeys were 17.8, 3.31, 15.4, and 6.85 ml min(-1) kg(-1), respectively. In mass balance studies using [(14)C]-ICAM1988 in rats dosed intravenously, unchanged ICAM1988 contributed to 25.1% of the dose. In rats, the systemic bioavailability of ICAM1988 was improved to 0.28 when the drug was administered orally as its isobutyl ester, ICAM2660. In rats, this was consistent with the complete in vitro conversion of ICAM2660 to ICAM1988 in plasma, and liver and intestinal S9. In dogs and monkeys, ICAM2660 did not improve the bioavailability of ICAM1988. This is consistent with limited in vitro conversion of ICAM2660 to ICAM1988 in plasma and liver S9. In human in vitro studies, ICAM2660 conversion to ICAM1988 in liver was similar to rats while no conversion in plasma and intestinal S9 fractions were observed. Based on the in vitro metabolism similarities of human and rat, it would be anticipated that in human oral administration of ICAM2660 would improve the systemic exposure of ICAM1988.
23527529	The pre-clinical absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion properties of IPI-926, an orally bioavailable antagonist of the hedgehog signal transduction pathway.	1. IPI-926 is a novel semisynthetic cyclopamine derivative that is a potent and selective Smoothened inhibitor that blocks the hedgehog signal transduction pathway. 2. The in vivo clearance of IPI-926 is low in mouse and dog and moderate in monkey. The volume of distribution is high across species. Oral bioavailability ranges from moderate in monkey to high in mouse and dog. Predicted human clearance using simple allometry is low (24Lh(-1)), predicted volume of distribution is high (469L) and predicted half-life is long (20h). 3. IPI-926 is highly bound to plasma proteins and has minimal interaction with human -1-acid glycoprotein. 4. In vitro metabolic stability ranges from stable to moderately stable. Twelve oxidative metabolites were detected in mouse, rat, dog, monkey and human liver microsome incubations and none were unique to human. 5. IPI-926 is not a potent reversible inhibitor of CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9 or 3A4 (testosterone). IPI-926 is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C19, 2D6 and 3A4 (midazolam) with KI values of 19, 16 and 4.5M, respectively. IPI-926 is both a substrate and inhibitor (IC50=1.9M) of P-glycoprotein. 6. In summary, IPI-926 has desirable pre-clinical absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion properties.
14171	Mass fragmentographic quantitation of ethotoin and some of its metabolites in human urine.	A method for the determination of ethotoin and its p-hydroxylated and dealkylated metabolites in urine has been developed. Ethotoin and the metabolites were extracted from acidified urine with ethyl acetate and silylated before injection into a combined gas chromatograph--mass spectrometer. Four partly identified metabolites were recorded, but their exact quantitation was not possible as pure reference substances were not available. The limit of sensitivity was far below the amounts of ethotoin and of its metabolites found in urine from patients treated with therapeutic doses of ethotoin.
15801541	Metabolic properties of the acid and lactone forms of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.	To gain a better understanding of the metabolic properties between the open acid and lactone form of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), the paper focused primarily on characterizing the metabolic properties of statins. We compared the metabolism of the acid and lactone forms of several statins, including atrovastatin, simvastatin, cerivastatin fluvastatin, pitavastatin and rosuvastatin with respect to metabolic clearance, CYP enzymes involved and drug-drug interactions. A remarkable increase in metabolic clearance was noted for all lactones compared with all acids except for pitavastatin lactone. The metabolic clearances of the atrovastatin, simvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin and rosuvastatin lactones were 73-, 70-, 30-, 7- and 64-fold higher, respectively, than those of the corresponding acids. CYP2Cs were critically involved in the metabolism of cerivastatin, fluvastatin and pitavastatin acids. In contrast, CYP2Cs were not involved in the metabolism of the corresponding lactones and CYP3A4 was mainly involved. Moreover, a substantial difference in the metabolic inhibition of statins was found between acids and lactones. Overall, the study demonstrates that CYP-mediated metabolism of lactones is also a common metabolic pathway for statins and that the CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of the lactone forms clearly will need to be taken into account in assessing mechanistic aspects of drug-drug interaction involving statins.
12920166	Multisite kinetic analysis of interactions between prototypical CYP3A4 subgroup substrates: midazolam, testosterone, and nifedipine.	The potential of substrates and modifiers of CYP3A4 to show differential effects, attributed to the existence of multiple binding sites, confounds the straightforward prediction of in vivo drug-drug interactions from in vitro data. A set of in vitro interaction studies was performed in human lymphoblast-expressed CYP3A4 involving representatives of two CYP3A4 subclasses, midazolam (MDZ) and testosterone (TST); a distinct subgroup, nifedipine (NIF); and its structural analog, felodipine (FEL). Mechanistic insight into the interaction of each pair of substrates was provided by employing a range of multisite kinetic models; most were subtypes of a generic two-site model, but a three-site model was required for TST interactions. The complexity of the inhibition profiles and the selection of the kinetic model with appropriate interaction factors were dependent upon the kinetics of substrates involved (hyperbolic, substrate inhibition, or sigmoidal for MDZ/FEL, NIF, and TST, respectively). In no case was a simple reciprocity seen between pairs of substrates. The interaction profiles observed between TST, MDZ, NIF, and FEL involved several atypical inhibition features (partial, cooperative, concentration-dependent loss of characteristic homotropic behavior) and pathway-differential effects reflecting an 80-fold difference in Ki values and a delta factor (defining the alteration in the binding affinity in the presence of a modifier) ranging from 0.04 to 2.3. The conclusions from the multisite kinetic analysis performed support the hypothesis of distinct binding domains for each substrate subgroup. Furthermore, the analysis of intersubstrate interactions strongly indicates the existence of a mutual binding domain common to each of the three CYP3A4 substrate subclasses.
22707166	In vitro metabolic fate of alizapride: evidence for the formation of reactive metabolites based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	The study of the formation of reactive metabolites during drug metabolism is one of the major areas of research in drug development since the link between reactive metabolites and drug adverse effects was well recognized. In particular, it has been shown that acrolein, a reactive carbonyl species sharing carbonylating and alkylating properties, binds covalently to nucleophilic sites in proteins, causing cellular damage. Alizapride, ()-6-methoxy-N-{[1-(prop-2-en-1-yl)-pyrrolidin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-benzotriazole-5-carboxamide, is a N-allyl containing dopamine antagonist with antiemetic properties for which no data concerning its metabolic fate are so far reported. The study of the in vitro metabolism of alizapride showed the formation of acrolein during the oxidative N-deallylation. Moreover, the formation of an epoxide metabolite has been also described suggesting its role as a putative structural alert. The reactivity of the acrolein and the epoxide generated in alizapride metabolism was demonstrated by the formation of the corresponding adducts with nucleophilic thiols. Overall, ten metabolites have been identified and characterized by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry analysis allowing to propose an in vitro metabolic scheme for alizapride. At the best of our knowledge, this is the second case of a drug involved in the generation of acrolein during its metabolism being the first represented by cyclophosphamide.
18927241	Pharmacokinetics of novel atrial-selective antiarrhythmic agent vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235): influence of CYP2D6 expression and other factors.	Vernakalant hydrochloride injection (RSD1235) is a relatively atrial-selective antiarrhythmic agent that converts atrial fibrillation rapidly to sinus rhythm. The pharmacokinetics of vernakalant were explored in healthy volunteers and in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter in 4 clinical studies. Key pharmacokinetic parameters analyzed were the maximum plasma concentration and the area under the plasma concentration-time curve. Vernakalant exhibited linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 0.1 mg/kg to 5.0 mg/kg in healthy subjects, and generally showed dose proportionality in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who received 1 or 2 vernakalant infusions. Vernakalant was metabolized rapidly via 4-O-demethylation by cytochrome P450 (CYP)2D6 to its major metabolite RSD1385, which then circulated predominantly as an inactive glucuronide conjugate. In most patients, the maximum plasma concentration of RSD1385 glucuronide exceeded that of vernakalant. Unconjugated RSD1385 was found at low levels in all patients demonstrating either a cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 "extensive metabolizer" or "poor metabolizer" phenotype or genotype; however, CYP2D6 poor metabolizers had even lower levels of unconjugated RSD1385. The impact of CYP2D6 metabolizer status on vernakalant exposure was explored in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter who received a therapeutic regimen (3 mg/kg initially via 10-minute intravenous infusion followed by a second 2 mg/kg 10-minute infusion if atrial fibrillation persisted after a 15-minute observation period). In the subset that received 2 vernakalant infusions, there was little difference in vernakalant maximum plasma concentration or area under the plasma concentration-time curve from the start of the first infusion to 90 minutes between CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and extensive metabolizers or between those who did or did not receive concomitant CYP2D6-inhibitor medications. Gender, age, and renal function did not have a clinically significant influence on the pharmacokinetics of vernakalant. These results suggest that an assessment of CYP2D6 expression may not be needed when vernakalant is administered acutely and intravenously to patients with atrial fibrillation.
18803181	On-line stacking capillary electrophoresis for analysis of methotrexate and its eight metabolites in whole blood.	Therapeutic drug monitoring of methotrexate (MTX) and its metabolites is significant for the evaluation of treatment response of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and the prevention of adverse effects. Those eight metabolites including 7-hydroxymethotrexate, MTX-polyglutamate derivatives (MTX-(Glu)(n), n=2-7), and 2,4-diamino-N(10)-methylpteroic acid, especially the MTX-(Glu)(n), only exist in blood cells and also present antifolate effects. Therefore, whole blood analysis has importance in clinical therapy. This study combined solid-phase extraction and on-line stacking capillary electrophoresis to examine the levels of MTX and its eight metabolites in whole blood. A higher conductivity buffer (HCB) was used to accumulate large amount of samples into a narrow zone, which resulted in effective stacking and sharp peaks. A fused-silica capillary was filled with phosphate buffer (80 mM, pH 2.5) containing 15% v/v tetrahydrofuran and 100 mM sodium dodecyl sulfate. Then HCB (100 mM phosphate, pH 2.5; 1 psi, 60 s) was injected for accumulating large volume of analytes (1 psi, 200 s). Owing to the pH difference between sample zone and HCB, dynamic pH junction was generated for focusing. Meanwhile, sweeping made further stacking by using sodium dodecyl sulfate in phosphate buffer. The limits of detection (S/N=3) were 0.1 microM for MTX, 0.2 microM for 7-hydroxymethotrexate and 2,4-diamino-N(10)-methylpteroic acid, 0.3 microM for MTX-(Glu)(n=2--5), and 0.5 microM for MTX-(Glu)(n=6--7). During validation, this method showed good linearity (r> / =0.9914) and reproducibility (relative standard deviation and relative error, both less than 13%). The applications were performed to monitor blood MTX and its metabolites in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients. The blood concentrations could provide some information related to therapeutic response and adverse effects.
16620541	Comparison of an automated and point-of-care immunoassay to GC-MS for urine oxycodone testing in the clinical laboratory.	OxyContin, a controlled-release formulation of oxycodone, is increasingly abused. Monitoring patient compliance by urine drug testing may deter illegal diversion of OxyContin. Two urine immunoassays were evaluated with a 100 ng/mL cutoff for oxycodone. The Microgenics Corporation Oxycodone DRI on the Bayer ADVIA 1650 and a point-of-care (POC) immunoassay, Monitect Oxycodone POC from Branan Medical Corporation, were compared to gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) with a detection limit of 50 ng/mL free oxycodone. Between-day precision for DRI yielded coefficients of variation from 3.9% to 7.0% at 75 and 125 ng/mL. Fifty-two positive and 52 negative urines were tested. The DRI had a 100% agreement with GC-MS. Two positive specimens had free oxycodone < 50 ng/mL, but oxycodone metabolites, oxymorphone and oxycodone glucuronide > 100 ng/mL, were identified by GC-MS analysis. The POC assay had two false positives and 15 indeterminate (+/-) results. Codeine or hydrocodone was present in all but one of these samples. There was no interference with DRI from morphine, codeine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, dihydrocodeine, or 6-monoacetyl morphine. Four-hundred and ninety urine samples were subsequently tested with DRI to estimate the oxycodone-positive rate at our hospital, and 47 (9.4%) were positive. The confirmation rate with GC-MS for free oxycodone, not including metabolites, was 93%. The Microgenics DRI offers good performance for oxycodone urine testing and is a better choice for the clinical laboratory than the POC assay. Confirmation of screened positive samples requires a method that can detect total oxycodone and oxymorphone.
19966074	Single-Dose pharmacokinetics of sustained-release fampridine (Fampridine-SR) in healthy volunteers and adults with renal impairment.	Fampridine-SR is a sustained-release formulation of fampridine (4-aminopyridine), a potassium channel blocker demonstrated to improve walking ability in patients with multiple sclerosis. This study evaluated the pharmacokinetics of fampridine and its metabolites after administration of fampridine-SR 10 mg in healthy volunteers and in subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (5 per group). Analysis of variance was used to calculate 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for the ratios (impaired/healthy) of least squares mean in maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC). Clearance was primarily through urinary excretion. In renally impaired subjects, fampridine plasma concentrations were consistently higher than in healthy individuals: ratios for C(max) ranged from 166.5% to 199.9% for mild and severe renal impairment, respectively. AUC(0-infinity) ratios ranged from 175.3% to 398.7%, respectively, for mild and severe renal impairment. Mean terminal disposition half-life was 6.4 hours in healthy individuals, compared with 7.4, 8.1, and 14.3 hours in patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively. Regression analysis confirmed the significant relationship between creatinine clearance and extent of exposure as quantified by AUC for fampridine and its metabolites, suggesting cautious use in patients with mild renal impairment and avoidance in cases of moderate or severe renal impairment.
16638734	Pharmacokinetics of buspirone in autistic children.	Buspirone is used to treat generalized anxiety disorder in children and may be useful in developmental disorders in which brain serotonin synthesis is altered. Autistic children (13 boys, 7 girls) were given a single oral dose of 2.5 mg (2-3 years) or 5.0 mg (4-6 years). Blood was collected for 8 hours, and plasma was assayed for buspirone and its metabolite 1-pyrimidinylpiperazine (1-PP). The peak concentration of buspirone averaged 1141 +/- 748 pg/mL with a time to maximum concentration of 0.8 hours. Half-life was 1.6 +/- 0.3 hours. Peak concentrations of 1-PP were 4.5-fold higher than for buspirone. Girls had higher peak concentrations (1876 vs 746 pg/mL) for buspirone and a lower peak 1-PP/buspirone concentration ratio. These results suggest that buspirone is rapidly absorbed and eliminated in young children with extensive metabolism to 1-PP. Plasma concentrations with 2.5- to 5.0-mg doses were similar to those observed in older children receiving 7.5- to 15-mg doses.
16953321	Human urine certified reference material CZ 6010: creatinine and toluene metabolites (hippuric acid and o-cresol) and a benzene metabolite (phenol).	A reference material for the biological monitoring of occupational exposure to toluene, benzene and phenol was prepared. O-cresol and hippuric acid (metabolites of toluene) are used for the biological monitoring of occupational exposure to toluene. Phenol, a metabolite of benzene, is used for the biological monitoring of exposure to benzene, but phenol can of course also be used as an indicator of exposure to phenol as well. The reference material (RM) used for the determination of these metabolites was prepared by freeze-drying pooled urine samples obtained from healthy persons occupationally exposed to toluene and those taking part in an inhalation experiment. Tests for homogeneity and stability were performed by determining urine concentrations of o-cresol, hippuric acid, creatinine and phenol. To investigate the stability of the RM, the urinary concentrations of o-cresol and phenol were monitored for eighteen months using GC and HPLC, while those of hippuric acid and creatinine were followed for five and six years, respectively, using HPLC. Analysis of variance showed that the concentrations did not change. The certified concentration values (and their uncertainties) of the substances in this reference material (phenol concentration c=6.46+/-0.58 mg l(-1); o-cresol concentration c=1.17+/-0.15 mg l(-1); hippuric acid concentration c=1328+/-30 mg l(-1); creatinine concentration c=0.82+/-0.10 g l(-1)) were evaluated via the interactive statistical programme IPECA.
12235447	Clinical pharmacokinetics of irinotecan and its metabolites in relation with diarrhea.	Our objective was to build population pharmacokinetic models that describe plasma concentrations of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its metabolites 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) and SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G) and to investigate the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationships between drug exposure and diarrhea, the major dose-limiting toxicity. Data were obtained from 109 patients (65 men and 44 women) who received 1.5-hour (range, 0.75- to 2.25-hour) intravenous infusions of irinotecan at doses that ranged from 100 to 350 mg/m(2); 44 patients had a second course. The population pharmacokinetic models were developed to describe plasma concentration-time profiles. The area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to 60 hours [AUC (0-60)] was used as a measure of drug exposure to model the probabilities of diarrhea with use of a logistic regression model. A 3-compartment pharmacokinetic model best described the disposition of irinotecan, whereas SN-38 and SN-38G showed 2-compartmental characteristics. The population estimate of clearance for irinotecan was 31.6 L/h, and the volume of distribution at steady-state (V(SS)) was 263 L. The clearance divided by formation fraction (F(m)) was 712 L/h and 66.8 L/h for SN-38 and SN-38G, respectively. The V(SS)/F(m) was 72,000 L for SN-38 and 85.4 L for SN-38G. The frequencies of diarrhea scores in this study were 46% (grade 0), 28% (grade 1), 20% (grade 2), 4% (grade 3), and 2% (grade 4). Significant correlations between AUC(0-60) and diarrhea scores were found for irinotecan (P <.05) and SN-38G (P <.01) but not for SN-38 or the biliary index. In this population analysis, irinotecan and SN-38G AUC values were appropriate predictors of the risk for diarrhea, and SN-38G AUC showed the stronger relationship of the two. The developed population models may be useful in further clinical development of this agent.
15342469	Identification and characterization of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in Schisandra fruit extract.	Schisandra fruit, a Schisandraceae family herb, is used as a component in Kampo medicines (developed from Chinese medicines, but established in Japan). It can act as a sedative and antitussive, improve hepatic function, and give a general tonic effect. An extract of Schisandra fruit has been shown with a potent inhibitory effect on human liver microsomal erythromycin N-demethylation activity mediated by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). The present study was conducted to identify Schisandra fruit components having inhibitory effects on CYP3A4 by surveying the effect on human liver microsomal erythromycin N-demethylation activity. Known components of Schisandra fruit, gomisins B, C, G, and N and gamma-shizandrin, showed inhibitory effects on N-demethylation activity. Among these components, gomisin C displayed the most potent and competitive inhibitory effect, with a Ki value of 0.049 microM. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of gomisin C was stronger than that of ketoconazole (Ki = 0.070 microM), a known potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Gomisin C, however, inhibited CYP1A2-, CYP2C9-, CYP2C19-, and CYP2D6-dependent activities only to a limited extent (IC50 values >10 microM). Moreover, gomisin C inactivated human liver microsomal erythromycin N-demethylation activity in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The inactivation kinetic parameters k(inact) and K(I) were 0.092 min(-1) and 0.399 microM, respectively. The human liver microsomal erythromycin N-demethylation activity inactivated by gomisin C did not recover on dialysis of the microsomes. Spectral scanning of CYP3A4 with gomisin C yielded an absorbance at 455 nm, suggesting that gomisin C inactivated the cytochrome P450 via the formation of a metabolite intermediate complex. This pattern is consistent with the metabolism of the methylenedioxy substituent in gomisin C. These results indicate that gomisin C is a mechanism-based inhibitor that not only competitively inhibits but irreversibly inactivates CYP3A4.
17245796	Analysis of 3,5-dichloroaniline as a biomarker of vinclozolin and iprodione in human urine using liquid chromatography/triple quadrupole mass spectrometry.	The fungicides vinclozolin and iprodione are widely used in agriculture. These pesticides are dicarboximide fungicides containing the common moiety 3,5-dichloroaniline (3,5-DCA). It has been suggested that low-level exposures to such compounds may be associated with adverse health effects such as endocrine disruption. In this study a method using liquid chromatography/triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) was developed for the analysis of 3,5-DCA as a biomarker of exposure to these fungicides in human urine. The urine samples were treated by basic hydrolysis to degrade the fungicides, their metabolites and conjugates to 3,5-DCA. The 3,5-DCA was then extracted using toluene and derivatized using pentafluoropropionic anhydride (PFPA). Analysis of the derivative was carried out using selected reaction monitoring (SRM) in the negative ion mode. Quantification of the derivative was performed using [(13)C(6)]-labeled 3,4-DCA as an internal standard with good precision and linearity in the range 0.1-200 ng/mL urine. The limit of detection was determined to be 0.1 ng/mL. The metabolites in urine were found to be stable during storage at -20 degrees C. To validate 3,5-DCA as a biomarker the method was applied in a human experimental exposure to iprodione and vinclozolin. Two healthy volunteers received 200 microg single oral doses of each pesticide followed by urine sampling during 72-120 h post-exposure. Between 78-107% of the dose was recovered as 3,5-DCA in the urine after exposure.
19414624	Up-regulation of transporters and enzymes by the vitamin D receptor ligands, 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and vitamin D analogs, in the Caco-2 cell monolayer.	The effects of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)] on gene expression and function were studied in Caco-2 cells. Microarray analyses, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reactions, and Western blotting were used to determine the mRNA and protein expression of transporters and enzymes after 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) or vehicle (0.1% ethanol) treatment for 1, 3, 6, and 10 days. The mRNA and protein expressions of the apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter, oligopeptide transporter 1, multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) 3, and sulfotransferase 1E1 remained unchanged with 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) treatment, whereas those for CYP3A4, multidrug resistance protein 1, and MRP2 were significantly increased (P < 0.05). 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) treatment significantly enhanced MRP4 protein expression by increasing protein stability without affecting mRNA expression, as confirmed in cycloheximide experiments. Marked increase in 6beta-hydroxylation of testosterone by CYP3A4 was also observed in the 6-day 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated (100 nM) cell lysate. The transport of [(3)H]digoxin, the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate, after treatment with 100 nM 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) for 3 days revealed a higher apparent permeability (P(app)) value in the basal (B)-to-apical (A) direction over that of vehicle treatment (15.1 +/- 0.53 x 10(-6) versus 11.8 +/- 0.58 x 10(-6) cm/s; P < 0.05), whereas the P(app) in the A-to-B direction was unchanged; the efflux ratio was increased (from 5.8 to 8.0). Reduced cellular retention of 5-(and-6)-carboxy-2',7'-dichlorofluorescein, suggestive of higher MRP2 activity, was observed in the 3-day 100 nM 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-treated cells over controls. Higher protein expression of CYP3A4, MRP2, P-gp, and MRP4 was also observed after a 6-day treatment with other vitamin D analogs (100 nM 1alpha-hydroxyvitamin D(3),1alpha-hydroxyvitamin D(2) or Hectorol, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)) in Caco-2 cells, suggesting a role of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and analogs in the activation of enzymes and transporters via the vitamin D receptor.
15516304	Two cases involving clomipramine intoxication.	Clomipramine and its active metabolite norclomipramine were identified and quantitated in multiple tissues recovered from two postmortem cases using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. In both cases clomipramine toxicity was assessed primarily upon levels determined from brain samples. This communication supplements the database on clomipramine and norclomipramine by providing quantitative determinations of both parent drug and metabolite in multiple tissues. A literature search revealed a paucity of data on clomipramine and norclomipramine levels in general and a total absence of documented brain levels. In patients who have undergone long-term tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) therapy, blood and liver analysis alone may not be sufficient to establish toxicity. Such patients can sequester substantial amounts in liver, a concern because the TCAs are subject to significant postmortem redistribution. When conducting postmortem investigations, the inclusion of brain determination provides valuable information in assessing the magnitude of toxicity in cases involving clomipramine and its active metabolite norclomipramine.
14609655	Tissue distribution of lidocaine in critical care patients after intubation.	We investigated tissue distribution of lidocaine in 33 patients after endotracheal intubation with Xylocaine jelly that contains 2% lidocaine hydrochloride. Blood levels of monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX), an active metabolite of lidocaine, were also determined. Five patients (Group A) were alive on arrival and six patients (Group B) resumed heartbeats after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The survival times for Groups A and B ranged from 3 to 72 h. The remaining 22 patients (Group C) did not survive cardiopulmonary arrest on arrival (CPAOA). Systemic distribution of lidocaine was measured in nine patients from Group C. The liver-to-kidney lidocaine ratios and cerebrum-to-cerebrospinal fluid lidocaine ratios were: Group A, 0.1-0.7 and 1.4-3.6, respectively; Group B, 0.2-0.8 and 1.2-2.3, respectively; Group C, 0.1-17 and 0.2-1.0, respectively. MEGX was detected in all blood samples from Group A and only two samples from Group B. No MEGX was detected in samples from Group C. Our results indicate that the absorption of tracheal lidocaine during natural circulation results in a cerebrum-to-cerebrospinal fluid lidocaine ratio of 1.2 or more, whereas absorption during artificial circulation by cardiac massage gives a ratio of 1.0 or less. The cerebrum-to-cerebrospinal fluid lidocaine ratio may be a more useful index to estimate circulatory dynamics of patients during CPR than the liver-to-kidney lidocaine ratio. MEGX was not a useful parameter for monitoring circulatory changes during cardiac massage.
18655824	Enzyme-based assay for quantification of chlorpyrifos oxon in human plasma.	Chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) is the active metabolite of the pesticide chlorpyrifos that inhibits cholinesterases at high reaction rates. Chlorpyrifos is of major concern because it causes some ten thousand fatalities each year, mostly due to suicidal attempts. Notwithstanding, toxicokinetic studies on chlorpyrifos in humans are scarce and CPO has not been detected hitherto in human blood. Knowledge of the concentration and the time course of CPO in poisonings would be helpful to better design antidotal strategies, particularly with oximes. Owing to the exceptionally fast covalent binding to butyrylcholinesterase we searched for an enzyme-based assay for CPO determination. We succeeded in a simple procedure where CPO is titrated with purified equine butyrylcholinesterase. The assay requires less than 0.2 mL EDTA plasma and allows the quantification of CPO down to 0.5 nM. CPO is first extracted from plasma with n-pentane, thereby largely excluding the majority of the more hydrophilic pesticide oxons from possible cross-reactions. When chlorpyrifos incorporation is ascertained the assay may be considered largely specific. The new procedure enabled the assessment of the extent of reversible binding of CPO to human albumin, amounting to 85% under physiological conditions. The assay allowed the quantification of CPO in the plasma of a poisoned patient, where the active metabolite was about two orders of magnitude lower than chlorpyrifos. Similar to the parent compound its oxon showed the same tendency to persist for longer periods, thus calling for a change of the usual oxime dosage regimen.
19147417	Validation of high performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection methods with simultaneous extraction procedure for the determination of artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in human plasma for application in clinical pharmacological studies of artesunate-amodiaquine drug combination.	With the expanded use of the combination of artesunate (AS) and amodiaquine (AQ) for the treatment of falciparum malaria and the abundance of products on the market, comes the need for rapid and reliable bioanalytical methods for the determination of the parent compounds and their metabolites. While the existing methods were developed for the determination of either AS or AQ in biological fluids, the current validated method allows simultaneous extraction and determination of AS and AQ in human plasma. Extraction is carried out on Supelclean LC-18 extraction cartridges where AS, its metabolite dihydroartemisinin (DHA) and the internal standard artemisinin (QHS) are separated from AQ, its metabolite desethylamodiaquine (DeAQ) and the internal standard, an isobutyl analogue of desethylamodiaquine (IB-DeAQ). AS, DHA and QHS are then analysed using Hypersil C4 column with acetonitrile-acetic acid (0.05M adjusted to pH 5.2 with 1.00M NaOH) (42:58, v/v) as mobile phase at flow rate 1.50ml/min. The analytes are detected with an electrochemical detector operating in the reductive mode. Chromatography of AQ, DeAQ and IB-DeAQ is carried out on an Inertsil C4 column with acetonitrile-KH(2)PO(4) (pH 4.0, 0.05M) (11:89, v/v) as mobile phase at flow rate 1.00ml/min. The analytes are detected by an electrochemical detector operating in the oxidative mode. The recoveries of AS, DHA, AQ and DeAQ vary between 79.1% and 104.0% over the concentration range of 50-1400ng/ml plasma. The accuracies of the determination of all the analytes are 96.8-103.9%, while the variation for within-day and day-to-day analysis are <15%. The lower limit of quantification for all the analytes is 20ng/ml and limit of detection is 8ng/ml. The method is sensitive, selective, accurate, reproducible and suited particularly for pharmacokinetic study of AS-AQ drug combination and can also be used to compare the bioavailability of different formulations, including a fixed-dose AS-AQ co-formulation.
9134009	Kinetics of chlorambucil in vitro: effects of fluid matrix, human gastric juice, plasma proteins and red cells.	The mechanisms involved in the bioavailability of chlorambucil or 4-[p-(bis[2-hydroxyethyl]amino)phenyl]-butyric acid are poorly understood. The effects of different matrices on the disintegration of chlorambucil were investigated by HPLC, 1H NMR, 31P NMR, and mass spectrometry. Cellular incorporation and protein binding of the drug in vitro was assessed with [3H]-chlorambucil. Decomposition of chlorambucil and its major metabolite, phenylacetic acid mustard, to mono- and dihydroxy derivatives, was significantly faster in water than in PBS, (phosphate-buffered saline, pH 7.4). The hydrolysis of chlorambucil was as fast in plasma ultrafiltrate as in PBS; plasma proteins, preferentially albumin, prevented this disintegration. In phosphate-buffered media, two additional stabile hydrolysis products were found which were characterised as the mono- and bis-phosphates of 4-[p-(bis[2-hydroxyethyl]amino)phenyl]butyric acid, results of the reaction of nucleophilic buffer species with the aziridinium ion intermediates. Chlorambucil bound covalently to plasma proteins and was incorporated into red cells. These interactions are likely to have a significant role in vivo, reducing the bioavailability of the drug. High H+ concentration associated with high chloride concentration in human gastric juice had a stabilizing effect on chlorambucil. Incorporation of [3H]-chlorambucil into red cells was inhibited in a concentration-dependent fashion by whole human plasma as well as by albumin. We conclude that the chemico-biological interactions demonstrated in the present investigation provide explanations for the remarkable pharmacokinetic differences observed intra- and inter-individually in the clinical use of chlorambucil. The present information is important, when clinical or in vitro evaluation of efficacy and bioavailability of chlorambucil is considered.
19770483	Toxicogenomics applied to cultures of human hepatocytes enabled an identification of novel petasites hybridus extracts for the treatment of migraine with improved hepatobiliary safety.	Butterbur extracts (Petasites hybridus) are recommended for the prevention of migraine, but pharmacovigilance reports may be suggestive of rare hepatobiliary toxicity. To evaluate its hepatotoxic potential, a series of in vivo and in vitro studies were carried out. Essentially, there were no signs of hepatocellular toxicity at estimated therapeutic C(max) levels of 60 ng/ml. Nonetheless, in a 28-day toxicity study at approximately 200-fold of therapeutic doses, induced liver transaminases and bilirubin elevations were observed. In a subsequent 6-month chronic toxicity study, the initial hepatobiliary effects were reproduced, but at the end of the study, liver function recovered and returned to normal as evidenced by clinical chemistry measurements. To identify possible mechanisms of hepatotoxicity, we investigated liver function in vitro at > 170-fold of therapeutic C(max) levels, including cytotoxicity (lactate dehydrogenase, MTT, and ATP), transaminase activities (alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase), albumin synthesis, urea and testosterone metabolism to assay for cytochrome P450 monooxygenase activity. Only with extracts rich in petasin (37% petasin) and at high and well above therapeutic doses, liver toxicity was observed. A toxicogenomic approach applied to hepatocyte cultures enabled hypothesis generation and was highly suggestive for extracts high in petasin content to impair bile acid transport and lipid and protein metabolism. Importantly, neither chronic rat in vivo nor rat in vitro studies predicted reliably hepatotoxicity, therefore reemphasizing the utility of human-based in vitro investigations for the development of safe medicinal products. Finally, toxicogenomics enabled the characterization of a novel butterbur extract with no signals for hepatotoxicity.
15935802	Environmental and occupational exposure to benzene in Thailand.	Exposure to benzene in air is a concern in Thailand, particularly since it was observed that the incidence of blood-related cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma, has increased in the past few decades. In Bangkok, the mean atmospheric levels of benzene on main roads and in schools were 33.71 and 8.25 ppb, respectively, while in gasoline service stations and petrochemical factories the mean ambient levels were 64.78 and 66.24 ppb, respectively. Cloth vendors (22.61 ppb) and grilled-meat vendors (28.19 ppb) working on the roadsides were exposed to significantly higher levels of benzene than the control group (12.95 ppb; p<0.05). Bangkok school children (5.50 ppb) were exposed to significantly higher levels of benzene than provincial school children (2.54 ppb; p<0.01). Factory workers (73.55 ppb) and gasoline service attendants (121.67 ppb) were exposed to significantly higher levels of benzene than control workers (4.77 ppb; p<0.001). In accordance with the increased benzene exposures, levels of urinary trans,trans-muconic acid (MA) were significantly increased in all benzene-exposed groups. In school children, the levels of MA were relatively high, taking into account the much lower level of exposure. Blood benzene levels were also significantly increased in Bangkok school children (77.97 ppt; p<0.01), gasoline service attendants (641.84 ppt; p<0.05) and factory workers (572.61 ppt; p<0.001), when compared with the respective controls. DNA damage, determined as DNA strand breaks, was found to be elevated in gasoline service attendants, petrochemical factory workers, and Bangkok school children (p<0.001). The cytogenetic challenge assay, which measures DNA repair capacity, showed varying levels of significant increases in the numbers of dicentrics and deletions in gasoline service attendants, petrochemical factory workers and Bangkok school children, indicating a decrease in DNA repair capacity in these subjects.
15470687	Simultaneous determination of niflumic acid and its prodrug, talniflumate in human plasma by high performance liquid chromatography.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method has been developed for the simultaneous determination of niflumic acid and its prodrug, talniflumate, in human plasma. Niflumic acid and talniflumate were eluted isocratically with methanol-water (73:27, v/v, adjusted to pH 3.5 by acetic acid) at a fl ow rate of 1 mL/min. Indomethacin was used as an internal standard. Signals were monitored by an UV detector at 288 nm. Retention times of indomethacin, niflumic acid and talniflumate were 5.9, 7.2 and 13.5 min, respectively. Calibration plots were linear over the range 50-5000 ng/mL for niflumic acid and 100-5000 ng/mL for talniflumate. The limits of quantitation were 50 ng/mL for niflumic acid and 100 ng/mL for talniflumate. The intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations (RSD) of niflumic acid and talniflumate were less than 10% and the accuracies were higher than 90%. This method is rapid, sensitive and reproducible for the determination of niflumic acid and talniflumate in human plasma.
17337139	Segmental determination of ethyl glucuronide in hair: a pilot study.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a minor metabolite of ethanol. Its detection in hair is more and more studied in both clinical and forensic context for the purpose of alcohol abuse monitoring. In this pilot study, hair specimens from 15 patients included in a treatment program after alcohol abuse cessation, were segmented and analyzed for EtG. The results were then compared to their self-reported past alcohol consumption and to their blood biomarkers values (GGT, MCV, ASAT, ALAT). EtG concentrations measured in hair varied from 8 to 261 pg/mg. The pattern of EtG concentration detected in the different hair segments matched with the drinking history of patients, displaying variations (increase and decrease) in alcohol consumption and also time of cessation. Results also demonstrated the existence of a significant correlation (r(p)=0.5357; p=0.0390) between EtG concentration in hair and the amount of alcohol intake. Variations in the EtG concentrations with respect to hair segments may provide an overview of the drinking history of patients. Moreover, EtG concentration in hair may help to estimate the daily alcohol intake.
23268924	Effects of green tea catechins on cytochrome P450 2B6, 2C8, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A activities in human liver and intestinal microsomes.	The effects of green tea catechins on the main drug-metabolizing enzymatic system, cytochrome P450 (CYP), have not been fully elucidated. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of green tea extract (GTE, total catechins 86.5%, w/w) and (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) on the activities of CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A in vitro, using pooled human liver and intestinal microsomes. Bupropion hydroxylation, amodiaquine N-deethylation, (S)-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation, dextromethorphan O-demethylation and midazolam 1'-hydroxylation were assessed in the presence or absence of various concentrations of GTE and EGCG to test their effects on CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A activities, respectively. Each metabolite was quantified using UPLC/ESI-MS, and the inhibition kinetics of GTE and EGCG on CYP enzymes was analyzed. In human liver microsomes, IC50 values of GTE were 5.9, 4.5, 48.7, 25.1 and 13.8 g/mL, for CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A, respectively. ECGC also inhibited these CYP isoforms with properties similar to those of GTE, and produced competitive inhibitions against CYP2B6 and CYP2C8, and noncompetitive inhibition against CYP3A. In human intestinal microsomes, IC50 values of GTE and EGCG for CYP3A were 18.4 g/mL and 31.1 M, respectively. EGCG moderately inhibited CYP3A activity in a noncompetitive manner. These results suggest that green tea catechins cause clinically relevant interactions with substrates for CYP2B6 and CYP2C8 in addition to CYP3A.
16678548	Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral oxycodone in healthy human subjects: role of circulating active metabolites.	In vitro experiments suggest that circulating metabolites of oxycodone are opioid receptor agonists. Clinical and animal studies to date have failed to demonstrate a significant contribution of the O-demethylated metabolite oxymorphone toward the clinical effects of the parent drug, but the role of other putative circulating active metabolites in oxycodone pharmacodynamics remains to be examined. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oxycodone were investigated in healthy human volunteers; measurements included the time course of plasma concentrations and urinary excretion of metabolites derived from N-demethylation, O-demethylation, and 6-keto-reduction, along with the time course of miosis and subjective opioid side effects. The contribution of circulating metabolites to oxycodone pharmacodynamics was analyzed by pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling. The human study was complemented by in vitro measurements of opioid receptor binding and activation studies, as well as in vivo studies of the brain distribution of oxycodone and its metabolites in rats. Urinary metabolites derived from cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A-mediated N-demethylation of oxycodone (noroxycodone, noroxymorphone, and alpha- and beta-noroxycodol) accounted for 45% +/- 21% of the dose, whereas CYP2D6-mediated O-demethylation (oxymorphone and alpha- and beta-oxymorphol) and 6-keto-reduction (alpha- and beta-oxycodol) accounted for 11% +/- 6% and 8% +/- 6% of the dose, respectively. Noroxycodone and noroxymorphone were the major metabolites in circulation with elimination half-lives longer than that of oxycodone, but their uptake into the rat brain was significantly lower compared with that of the parent drug. Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling indicated that the time course of pupil constriction is fully explained by the plasma concentration of the parent drug, oxycodone, alone. The metabolites do not contribute to the central effects, either because of their low potency or low abundance in circulation or as a result of their poor uptake into the brain. CYP3A-mediated N-demethylation is the principal metabolic pathway of oxycodone in humans. The central opioid effects of oxycodone are governed by the parent drug, with a negligible contribution from its circulating oxidative and reductive metabolites.
21819793	The role of dihydrocodeine (DHC) metabolites in dihydrocodeine-related deaths.	The focus of this study was to report the blood and urine concentrations of dihydrocodeine (DHC) and its metabolites, dihydrocodeine-6-glucuronide (DHC6G), dihydromorphine (DHM), dihydromorphine-3-glucuronide (DHM3G), and dihydromorphine-6-glucuronide (DHM6G) in deaths involving DHC, and to report the range of concentrations detected in real cases in order to understand their contribution to DHC intoxication. Twenty-six positive postmortem cases were involved in the current study. Five cases were attributed solely to DHC intoxication, 13 cases to polydrug intoxication, and the remainder of the cases were unrelated to DHC (DHC has been detected but is unrelated to the cause of death). DHC and its glucuronide were detected in all cases investigated in blood and urine matrices. Unchanged parent drug is the most abundant analyte detected in blood samples mean and median of DHC/total DHC (DHC plus DHC6G) percentages were 63% and 72%, and DHC6G is the most abundant DHC metabolite in urine with a mean and median DHC6G/TDHC of 69% and 70%, respectively. Blood DHC concentrations ranged from 40 to 166,000 ng/mL and 200 to 159,000 ng/mL in urine. DHC6G concentrations in these cases ranged from 20 to 62,180 ng/mL in blood and 40 to 500,000 ng/mL in urine. However, DHM and its glucuronide were present at lower concentrations than DHC and its glucuronide. In the current study, it can be concluded that concentrations of DHC that cause death may be lower in polydrug intoxication. Concentrations found at autopsy overlapped between toxic and therapeutic concentrations because of the presence of other harmful substances, and death can occur with concentrations below lethal concentrations as reported in Case 1 (500 ng/mL). It has been suggested that DHM and DHM6G may play a major role in assessing the cause of death in cases where DHC is not detected and when it is detected in low concentrations. The current study does not support this hypothesis, and it can be seen clearly from the data reported here that DHM and its glucuronide were not detected where DHC was not detected. Toxic concentrations of DHM and DHM6G were identified in some of these cases; however, the concentration of DHC was enough to cause death on its own. It seems that DHM and DHM6G have less influence in causing death than the parent drug itself.
23043183	Metabolism and disposition of vilanterol, a long-acting (2)-adrenoceptor agonist for inhalation use in humans.	The metabolism and disposition of vilanterol, a novel long-acting (2)-adrenoceptor agonist (LABA) for inhalation use, was investigated after oral administration in humans. Single oral administrations of up to 500 g of vilanterol were shown to be safe and well tolerated in two clinical studies in healthy men. In a human radiolabel study, six healthy men received a single oral dose of 200 g of [(14)C]vilanterol (74 kBq). Plasma, urine, and feces were collected up to 168 hours after the dose and were analyzed for vilanterol, metabolites, and radioactivity. At least 50% of the radioactive dose was orally absorbed. The primary route of excretion of drug-related material was via O-dealkylation to metabolites, which were mainly excreted in urine. Vilanterol represented a very small percentage (<0.5%) of the total drug-related material in plasma, indicative of extensive first-pass metabolism. Circulating metabolites resulted mainly from O-dealkylation and exhibited negligible pharmacologic activity. The therapeutic dose level for vilanterol is 25 g by the inhalation route. At this low-dose level, the likelihood of pharmacologically inactive metabolites causing unexpected toxicity is negligible. In addition to providing an assessment of the disposition of vilanterol in human, this work highlights a number of complexities associated with determining human absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) for inhaled molecules--mainly related to the low chemical doses and complications associated with the inhalation route of administration.
18647599	Application and interpretation of hPXR screening data: Validation of reporter signal requirements for prediction of clinically relevant CYP3A4 inducers.	A human pregnane X receptor (PXR) reporter-gene assay was established and validated using 19 therapeutic agents known to be clinical CYP3A4 inducers, 5 clinical non-inducers, and 6 known inducers in human hepatocytes. The extent of CYP3A4 induction (measured as RIF ratio in comparison to rifampicin) and EC50 was obtained from the dose-response curve. All of the clinical inducers (19/19) and human hepatocyte inducers (6/6) showed positive responses in the PXR assay. One out of five clinical non-inducers, pioglitazone, also showed a positive response. An additional series of 18 commonly used drugs with no reports of clinical induction was also evaluated as putative negative controls. Sixteen of these were negative (89%), whereas two of these, flutamide and haloperidol showed 16-fold (RIF ratio 0.79) and 10-fold (RIF ratio 0.48) maximal induction, respectively in the reporter-gene system. Flutamide and haloperidol were further demonstrated to cause CYP3A4 induction in human cryopreserved hepatocytes based on testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation activity. The induction potential index calculated based on the maximum RIF ratio, EC50, and in vivo maximum plasma concentration was used to predict the likelihood of CYP3A4 induction in humans. When the induction potential index is greater than 0.08, the compound is likely to cause induction in humans. A high-throughput screening strategy was developed based on the validation results at 1microM and 10microM for the same set of drugs. A RIF ratio of 0.4 was set as more practical screening cut-off to minimize the possibility of generating false positives. Thus, a tiered approach was implemented to use the human PXR reporter-gene assay from early lead optimization to late lead characterization in drug discovery.
9083831	An accurate, automated, simultaneous gas chromatographic headspace measurement of whole blood ethanol and acetaldehyde for human in vivo studies.	Simultaneous assessment of ethanol and acetaldehyde concentrations is necessary to address hypotheses in alcohol research. Accurate measurement of in vivo acetaldehyde following ethanol exposure is problematic because acetaldehyde is present in blank blood, is volatile, and is formed enzymatically and nonenzymatically in blood containing ethanol. Because acetaldehyde is carried in red blood cells, previously reported plasma methods may not reflect total body acetaldehyde. We developed an accurate, sensitive, automated gas chromatographic whole blood method using headspace injection and flame ionization detection. Sensitivity was 5.4 mumol/L and 1.13 mumol/L for ethanol and acetaldehyde, respectively. Linearity (r2 > 0.99, both) and reproducibility (coefficients of variation = 1.6-7.7%) were acceptable. Because a whole blood method completely inhibiting in vitro oxidation of ethanol has not been reported, we evaluated multiple reported sample processing methods. The optimum method, which uses saturated sodium nitrite as the inhibitor, resulted in a 30% in vitro increase in acetaldehyde in blood containing 21.7 mmol/L (0.1 g/dL) ethanol, in contrast to the 9-40-fold increase observed with other inhibitors (p = 0.001). Using the described technique, the median acetaldehyde and ethanol peak concentrations in six African-American women following a 0.5 g/kg oral ethanol dose were 6.1 microM and 17.1 mM, respectively.
12186421	Effect of probucol on cytochrome P450 activities in human liver microsomes.	The effects of probucol, a cholesterol-lowering agent, on several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoform-specific reactions in human liver microsomes were investigated to predict drug interactions with probucol in vivo from in vitro data. The following eight CYP catalytic reactions were used in this study: CYP1A1/2-mediated 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation, CYP2A6-mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylation, CYP2B6-mediated 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylation, CYP2C8/9-mediated tolbutamide methylhydroxylation, CYP2C19-mediated S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation, CYP2D6-mediated bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation, CYP2E1-mediated chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation, and CYP3A4-mediated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation. Probucol had neither stimulatory nor inhibitory effects on CYP1Al/2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8/9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4 activities at concentrations up to 300 microM, indicating that probucol, at the expected therapeutic concentrations, would not be predicted to cause clinically significant interactions with other CYP-metabolized drugs.
22023349	2,7-Disubstituted-pyrrolotriazine kinase inhibitors with an unusually high degree of reactive metabolite formation.	There are numerous published studies establishing a link between reactive metabolite formation and toxicity of various drugs. Although the correlation between idiosyncratic reactions and reactive metabolite formation is not 1:1, the association between the two is such that many pharmaceutical companies now monitor for reactive metabolites as a standard part of drug candidate testing and selection. The most common method involves in vitro human microsomal incubations in the presence of a thiol trapping agent, such as glutathione (GSH), followed by LC/MS analysis. In this study, we describe several 2,7-disubstituted-pyrrolotriazine analogues that are extremely potent reactive metabolite precursors. Utilizing a UPLC/UV/MS method, unprecedented levels of GSH adducts were measured that are 5-10 times higher than previously reported for high reactive metabolite-forming compounds such as clozapine and troglitazone.
12520178	Urinary pharmacokinetics of baicalein, wogonin and their glycosides after oral administration of Scutellariae Radix in humans.	Baicalin, baicalein, wogonoside and wogonin are flavone constituents of Scutellariae Radix with various beneficial biological activities. The purpose of this study was to investigate the urinary pharmacokinetics of these flavones after oral administration of Scutellariae Radix commercial powder. Ten healthy male volunteers received a dose of 5.2 g commercial powder (comparable to 9 g crude drug), respectively. The concentrations of baicalin, baicalein and wogonin in the commercial powder as well as their metabolites in urine were assayed by HPLC method. The glucuronides and sulfates of baicalein and wogonin in urine were hydrolyzed with beta-glucuronidase and sulfatase, respectively. Our results showed that the mean cumulated renal excretion of baicalein glucuronides and sulfates were 43.1+/-4.5 micromol (2.9% of dose) and 64.8+/-6.3 micromol (4.3% of dose), respectively, whereas wogonin glucuronides and sulfates were 21.6+/-2.0 micromol (5.9% of dose) and 20.7+/-1.7 micromol (5.7% of dose), respectively. The result indicated that the renal excretion of conjugated metabolites of wogonin (11.6% of dose) were higher than that of baicalein (7.2% of dose). The baicalein sulfates was predominant than the corresponding glucuronides, whereas wogonin sulfates was comparable to the corresponding glucuronides.
11823007	Identification of new DNA adducts in human bladder epithelia exposed to the proximate metabolite of 4-aminobiphenyl using 32P-postlabeling method.	The DNA adducts were analyzed by 32P-postlabeling method following exposure of human uroepithelial cells (HUC) to N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-ABP), the proximate metabolite of the human bladder carcinogen 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP). TLC of the postlabeled products on the first dimension revealed several products, the majority of which stayed close to the origin and were earlier identified as the 3',5' -bisphospho derivatives of N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl and N-(deoxyadenosin-8-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl (Carcinogenesis 13 (1993) 955; Carcinogenesis 16 (1995) 295). Here we report characterization of two additional adducts that amounted to less than 5% of the total adducts. Autoradiography of D1 chromatogram of the postlabeled products of calf thymus DNA chemically interacted with N-OH-ABP under acidic conditions revealed two adducts, #1 and #2, with R(f) values of about 0.2 and 0.3, respectively. Two adducts with D1 thin layer chromatographic properties similar to those of adducts #1 and #2 were obtained on postlabeling analyses of products generated by chemical interaction of N-acetoxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OAc-ABP) with deoxyguanosine-3' -monophosphate (dGp). Based on proton NMR and mass spectroscopic analyses of the synthetic products derived from N-OAc-ABP, the chemical structures of adducts #1 and #2 have been identified as 3-(deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl, and N-(deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-4-aminobiphenyl, respectively. Both of these adducts were insensitive to digestion with nuclease P1. 32P-Postlabeling analysis of the nuclease P1 enriched DNA hydrolysate of HUC cells treated with N-OH-ABP showed the presence of adduct #2 but not adduct #1. Adduct #2 was also detected in calf thymus DNA incubated with HUC cytosol and N-OH-ABP in the presence of acetyl CoA. These results suggest that in the target cells for ABP carcinogenesis in vivo, N-OH-ABP is bioactivated by acetyl CoA-dependent acyltransferases to reactive arylnitrenium ions that covalently interact at N(2)-position of deoxyguanosine in DNA.
8590921	Determination of salbutamol enantiomers in human plasma and urine by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography.	Enantiomers of salbutamol were directly separated (Rs = 1.16) and quantitated at therapeutic concentrations after solid-phase extraction from human plasma and urine by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography on a chiral column with fluorescence detection. The assay was linear for each enantiomer between 1.25 and 500 ng ml-1 and had a minimum limit of detection of 250 pg ml-1. A 3-ml plasma or 1-ml urine sample was required for quantitation at therapeutic doses. Inter-day variation was 5.0% for S-(+)- and 6.5% for R-(-)-salbutamol. The assay was used to compare enantioselective disposition after single doses of racemate by the intravenous, oral and rectal routes.
14567631	Amino acid ester prodrugs of floxuridine: synthesis and effects of structure, stereochemistry, and site of esterification on the rate of hydrolysis.	To synthesize amino acid ester prodrugs of floxuridine (FUdR) and to investigate the effects of structure, stereochemistry, and site of esterification of promoiety on the rates of hydrolysis of these prodrugs in Caco-2 cell homogenates. Amino acid ester prodrugs of FUdR were synthesized using established procedures. The kinetics of hydrolysis of prodrugs was evaluated in human adenocarcinoma cell line (Caco-2) homogenates and pH 7.4 phosphate buffer. 3'-Monoester, 5'-monoester, and 3',5'-diester prodrugs of FUdR utilizing proline, L-valine, D-valine, L-phenylalanine, and D-phenylalanine as promoieties were synthesized and characterized. In Caco-2 cell homogenates, the L-amino acid ester prodrugs hydrolyzed 10 to 75 times faster than the corresponding D-amino acid ester prodrugs. Pro and Phe ester prodrugs hydrolyzed much faster (3- to 30-fold) than the corresponding Val ester prodrugs. Further, the 5'-monoester prodrugs hydrolyzed significantly faster (3-fold) than the 3',5'-diester prodrugs. Novel amino acid ester prodrugs of FUdR were successfully synthesized. The results presented here clearly demonstrate that the rate of FUdR prodrug activation in Caco-2 cell homogenates is affected by the structure, stereochemistry, and site of esterification of the promoiety. Finally, the 5'-Val and 5'-Phe monoesters exhibited desirable characteristics such as good solution stability and relatively fast enzymatic conversion rates.
16802855	Comparison of oxycodone pharmacokinetics after buccal and sublingual administration in children.	We evaluated and compared the pharmacokinetics of two oral administration routes of oxycodone parenteral liquid (10 mg/mL)--single buccal and sublingual administration--in 30 generally healthy awake children, aged 6-91 months. Two groups of children undergoing inpatient surgery were enrolled. In a randomised fashion, children received a single dose of oxycodone 0.2 mg/kg buccally (n = 15) or sublingually (n = 15). Regular blood samples were collected for up to 12 hours, and plasma was analysed for oxycodone, oxymorphone and noroxycodone using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Bioavailability was similar after administration at the two instillation sites. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero extrapolated to infinity (AUCinfinity) was 2400-8000 ng x min/mL (median 4200 ng x min/mL) in the buccal group and 2700-7900 ng x min/mL (median 5500 ng x min/mL) in the sublingual group. After buccal administration, maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) was 5.4-39 ng/mL (16 ng/mL) after buccal and 5.5-42 ng/mL (22 ng/mL) after sublingual administration. Twelve of the 15 children in both groups reached the oxycodone analgesic concentration of 12 ng/mL, which was sustained for 43-209 minutes (median 160 minutes) in the children with buccal oxycodone and for 32-262 minutes (median 175 minutes) in the children with sublingual oxycodone. The terminal elimination half-lives were closely similar in the two groups: 104-251 minutes (median 140 minutes) in the buccal group and 110-190 minutes (150 minutes) in the sublingual group. The results of this study show that in young children the absorption of oxycodone is similar after buccal and sublingual instillation.
17962429	Lack of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between a smoking cessation therapy, varenicline, and warfarin: an in vivo and in vitro study.	This study investigated the effect of varenicline on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a single dose of warfarin in 24 adult smokers and compared these findings with data generated using human in vitro systems. Subjects were randomized to receive varenicline 1 mg twice a day or placebo for 13 days and then switched to the alternative treatment after a 1-week washout period. A single dose of warfarin 25 mg was given on day 8 of each treatment period, and serial blood samples were collected over 144 hours postdose. Pharmacokinetic parameters for both (R)- and (S)-warfarin and international normalized ratio (INR) values were determined. Varenicline was assessed as an inhibitor and inducer of human cytochrome P450 activities using liver microsomes and hepatocytes, respectively. Consistent with the in vitro data, no alteration in human pharmacokinetics of warfarin enantiomers was observed with varenicline treatment. The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of area under the concentration-time curve from zero hours to infinity and peak plasma concentrations were completely contained within 80% to 125%. Warfarin pharmacodynamic parameters, maximum INR, and the area under the prothrombin (INR)-time curve, were also unaffected by steady-state varenicline. Concomitant administration of varenicline and warfarin was well tolerated. Consequently, warfarin can be safely administered with varenicline without the need for dose adjustment.
20663282	Analysis of 4-aminobiphenyl hemoglobin adducts in smokers and nonsmokers by pseudo capillary on-column gas chromatography- tandem mass spectrometry.	We describe here a hemoglobin adduct assay applied to an analysis of samples from smokers and nonsmokers. The assay includes a sensitive method for quantification of orthotoluidine 2-aminonaphthylene, and 3- and 4-aminobiphenyl hemoglobin adducts in human blood using capillary gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Basic hydrolysis and derivatization with pentafluoropropionic acid anhydride are followed by programmable temperature vaporization and pseudo on-column capillary gas chromatography with positive electron ionization tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Standard deviation of calibration curves (n = 6) shows that the limits of detection for o-toluidine, 2-aminonaphthylene, and 3- and 4-aminobiphenyl were 0.23, 0.39, 0.30, and 0.24 pg total on-column, respectively. The effective working limit of detection is estimated at approximately 5.22 pg/g Hb and 18.73 pg/g Hb for 4-aminobiphenyl and 2-aminonaphthylene, respectively. In a group that was predominately male and African-American, the level of 4-aminobiphenyl Hb adducts was significantly different between smokers and nonsmokers. Among 93 nonsmokers with serum cotinine concentrations less than 10 ng/mL, the geometric mean (95% CI) concentration of 4-aminobiphenyl was 29.9 pg/g hemoglobin (Hb; 29.4 to 30.4). Conversely, in 100 smokers the 4-aminobiphenyl adducts geometric mean concentration was significantly greater at 73.0 pg/g Hb (72.6 to 73.4). 4-Aminobiphenyl hemoglobin adduct and serum cotinine concentrations were correlated (r = 0.496; p < 0.0001; n = 193). In 15% of smokers, 3-aminobiphenyl was detected at low concentration. Adduct levels of 2-aminonaphthylene and ortho-toluidine were not significantly different between the smoker and nonsmoker participants. Our study shows that 4-aminobiphenyl Hb adducts remain the preferred biomarker for identifying people exposed to aromatic amines from tobacco smoke.
14977863	Impact of incubation conditions on bufuralol human clearance predictions: enzyme lability and nonspecific binding.	Human liver microsomes (HLMs) are frequently utilized in drug discovery to predict the human clearance of a compound. The extent to which the incubation conditions affect the accuracy of a human clearance prediction was determined for bufuralol. HLMs were preincubated at 37 degrees C for varying times (5-120 min) with and without NADPH, and the remaining enzyme activity was determined by incubating compounds that have been characterized to be selective for individual cytochromes P450 or flavin-containing monooxygenase 3. CYP2D6, the high-affinity component of bufuralol metabolism, was shown to be the least stable of the isoforms studied. The loss of CYP2D6 activity was further examined by determining the kinetics of 1'-hydroxybufuralol formation after different preincubation time periods, by using reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers, and by utilizing Western blotting techniques. A 3-fold decrease in Vmax was observed over 2 h, whereas the Km remained constant. ROS scavengers were able to block enzyme lability, and Western blots revealed no apparent loss of immunoreactive enzyme. The protein binding of bufuralol was determined in HLMs, recombinant CYP2D6, and human plasma. A prediction of theoretical bufuralol concentrations over a 120-min incubation that incorporated enzyme lability was performed and shown to be closer to actual data than if enzyme lability were ignored. Finally, a similar prediction using literature bufuralol data, coupled with the observed protein binding data, was used to illustrate that the most accurate predictions of bufuralol clearance are obtained when the amount of protein in the incubation is kept to a minimum and the overall incubation time is less than 20 min.
15043991	Inhibition of cytochrome P450 activities by oleanolic acid and ursolic acid in human liver microsomes.	Oleanolic acid (OA) and ursolic acid (UA), triterpene acids having numerous pharmacological activities including anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and hepato-protective effects, were tested for their ability to modulate the activities of several cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes using human liver microsomes. OA competitively inhibited CYP1A2-catalyzed phenacetin O-deethylation and CYP3A4-catalyzed midazolam 1-hydroxylation, the major human drug metabolizing CYPs, with IC50 (Ki) values of 143.5 (74.2) microM and 78.9 (41.0) microM, respectively. UA competitively inhibited CYP2C19-catalyzed S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation with an IC50 (Ki) value of 119.7 (80.3) microM. However, other CYPs tested showed no or weak inhibition by both OA and UA. The present study demonstrates that OA and UA have inhibitory effects on CYP isoforms using human liver microsomes. It is thus likely that consumption of herbal medicines containing OA or UA, or administration of OA or UA, can cause drug interactions in humans when used concomitantly with drugs that are metabolized primarily by CYP isoforms. In addition, it appears that the inhibitory effect of OA on CYP1A2 is, in part, related to its anti-inflammatory and anticancer activities.
15897017	Interference free and simplyfied liquid chromatography-based determination of thiopurine S-methyltransferase activity in erythrocytes.	The determination of the thiopurine S-methyltransferase activity (TPMT; EC 2.1.1.67) has become an important issue during thiopurine therapy due to its known genetic polymorphism resulting in a wide range of TPMT activity. Therefore, the standard thiopurine drug regimen is associated with increased hematopoetic toxicity in patients with low or absent TPMT activity, whereas patients with high activity may be insufficiently treated. However, presently available methods are labour intensive and time consuming and tend towards too high or too low enzyme activity due to their methodological approach. The use of instable substrate solutions (6-MP or 6-TG), organic solvents like dimethyl sulfoxide and too high substrate and co-substrate saturation concentrations contribute to this phenomenon. We therefore, established an optimized and fast isocratic HPLC linked TPMT assay based on the enzymatic methylation of mercaptopurine or thioguanine in RBC lysates with S-adenosyl-l-methionine as methyl donor. Unspecific non-enzymatic methylation was not detectable. The recovery of 6-methyl-mercaptopurine was 97-102%, the intra- and interday variation between 1.0 and 5.0%, respectively. The assay dispenses with a time consuming extraction procedure with organic solvents, a heating step, and a gradient elution and is therefore, favourable for clinical routine application. The TPMT activity was measured in 62 untreated children with acute lymphoblastic leucemia at the time of diagnosis (activity = 34.0+/-10.6 nmol/g Hb/h, range: 11.5-55.4 nmol/g Hb/h) and in 12 adult healthy volunteers (62.8+/-7.7 nmol/g Hb/h, range: 48-82 nmol/g Hb/h) reflecting the wide measurable TPMT activity found in erythrocytes.
22149257	A pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model for predicting the impact of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 polymorphisms on fluindione and acenocoumarol during induction therapy.	Vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, subunit 1 (VKORC1) and cytochrome P450 2C9 (CYP2C9) polymorphisms are taken into account when predicting a safe oral dose of coumarin anticoagulant therapy, but little is known about the effects of genetic predictors on the response to fluindione and acenocoumarol. The aims of this study were to characterize the relationship between fluindione and acenocoumarol concentrations and the international normalized ratio (INR) response, and to identify genetic predictors that are important for dose individualization. Fluindione concentrations, S- and R-acenocoumarol concentrations, the INR and genotype data from healthy subjects were used to develop a population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model in Monolix software. Twenty-four White healthy subjects were enrolled in the pharmacogenetic study. The study was an open-label, randomized, two-period cross-over study. The subjects received two doses of an oral anticoagulant: 20 mg of fluindione (period A) or 4mg of acenocoumarol (period B). The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics were studied from day 2 to day 3. A two-compartment model with a first-order input model was selected as the base model for the two drugs. The pharmacodynamic response was best described by an indirect action model with S-acenocoumarol concentrations and fluindione concentrations as the only exposure predictors of the INR response. Three covariates (CYP2C9 genotype, VKORC1 genotype and body weight) were identified as important predictors for the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model of S-acenocoumarol, and four covariates (CYP2C9 genotype, VKORC1 genotype, CYP1A2 phenotype and body weight) were identified as predictors for the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model of fluindione. Because some previous studies have shown a dose-response relationship between smoking exposure and the CYP1A2 phenotype, it was also noted that smokers have greater CYP1A2 activity. During initiation of therapy, CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genetic polymorphisms are important predictors of fluindione and acenocoumarol pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic responses. Our result suggests that it is important to take the CYP1A2 phenotype into account to improve individualization of fluindione therapy, in addition to genetic factors.
1686692	N(+)-glucuronidation of aliphatic tertiary amines, a general phenomenon in the metabolism of H1-antihistamines in humans.	1. Representative drugs of the various structural classes of H1 antihistamines were chosen for study. The drugs chosen (class name in parentheses) were chlorpheniramine maleate and pheniramine maleate (alkylamines), diphenhydramine hydrochloride and doxylamine succinate (ethanolamines), pyrilamine maleate and tripelennamine hydrochloride (ethylenediamines), promethazine hydrochloride (phenothiazine), cyclizine lactate (piperazine) and terfenadine (miscellaneous). In each case oral dose(s) were administered over no more than 6 h to two healthy volunteers and the total urine collected for 36 h. 2. Metabolites from urine were separated by h.p.l.c. and individually collected prior to mass spectrometric analysis in the fast atom bombardment mode. The structure of each metabolite identified as a quaternary ammonium-linked glucuronide metabolite was confirmed by direct comparison of its mass spectrum and chromatographic behaviour with that of a synthetic authentic compound. 3. For eight of the nine drugs studied, metabolism by the N(+)-glucuronidation pathway was observed in each of the volunteers. Terfenadine was the exception. 4. The amount of each N(+)-glucuronide in the urine was estimated by h.p.l.c. analysis. The mean proportion of dose excreted as the metabolite was 14.3%, 6.5% and 4.0% for cyclizine, tripelennamine and diphenhydramine, respectively. Promethazine was the only case where the N(+)-glucuronide accounted for less than 1.0% of the administered dose in both volunteers examined.
23817130	Pharmacokinetics of macitentan in caucasian and Japanese subjects: the influence of ethnicity and sex.	Macitentan is a novel dual endothelin receptor antagonist with sustained receptor binding in clinical development for pulmonary arterial hypertension. The present study compared the pharmacokinetics and safety of macitentan in healthy Caucasian and Japanese subjects and explored the potential sex differences. In this single-center, open-label, phase I study 10 healthy subjects of each ethnic origin with a male/female ratio of 1:1 in each group were administered a single oral 10-mg dose of macitentan. Blood samples were taken to determine plasma levels of macitentan and its pharmacologically active metabolite, ACT-132577, and safety and tolerability were monitored using standard assessments. For both macitentan and its metabolite, values for Cmax were similar but a shorter half-life was determined in Japanese subjects resulting in an exposure to both compounds being approximately 15% lower in Japanese when compared to Caucasian subjects. The exposure to macitentan was similar in Japanese males and females whereas Caucasian females had an approximately 25% higher exposure than Caucasian males. In both ethnic groups, females had an approximately 15% higher exposure to ACT-132577 than male subjects. Macitentan was well tolerated in both ethnic groups. There were no clinically significant differences in adverse event profile, clinical laboratory, electrocardiographic parameters, and vital signs between both groups. The data suggest that the minor differences in pharmacokinetics between the two groups are not clinically relevant and no dose adjustment of macitentan based on Japanese ethnic origin or sex is necessary.
17825631	GC-MS assay for hepatic DDAH activity in diabetic and non-diabetic rats by measuring dimethylamine (DMA) formed from asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA): evaluation of the importance of S-nitrosothiols as inhibitors of DDAH activity in vitro and in vivo in humans.	Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, is hydrolyzed to dimethylamine (DMA) and L-citrulline by the enzyme dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH). In the present article we report on a GC-MS assay for DDAH activity in rat liver homogenate in phosphate buffered saline. The method is based on the quantitative determination of ADMA-derived DMA by GC-MS as the pentafluorobenzamide derivative. Quantification was performed by selected-ion monitoring of the protonated molecules at m/z 240 for DMA and m/z 246 for the internal standard (CD3)2NH in the positive-ion chemical ionization mode. The assay was applied to determine the enzyme kinetics in rat liver, the hepatic DDAH activity in streptozotocin-induced (50 mg/kg) diabetes in rats, and to evaluate the importance of S-nitrosothiols as DDAH inhibitors. The KM and Vmax values were determined to be 60 microM ADMA and 12.5 pmol DMA/minmg liver corresponding to 166 pmol DMA/minmg protein. Typical DDAH activity values measured in rat liver homogenate were 8.7 pmol DMA/minmg liver at added ADMA concentration of 100 microM. DDAH activity was found to be 1.7-fold elevated in diabetic as compared to non-diabetic rats (P=0.01). The SH-specific agents HgCl2, S-nitrosocysteine ethyl ester (SNACET), a synthetic lipophilic S-nitrosothiol, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), S-nitrosocysteine (CysNO) and S-nitrosohomocysteine (HcysNO) were found to inhibit DDAH activity in rat liver homogenate. The IC50 values for HcysNO, SNACET, CysNO and GSNO were estimated to be 300, 500, 700 and 1000 microM, respectively. Oral administration of 15N-labelled SNACET to two healthy volunteers (1 micromol/kg) resulted in elevated urinary excretion of 15N-labelled nitrite and nitrate, but did not reduce creatinine-corrected excretion of DMA in the urine. Our results suggest that inhibition of DDAH activity on the basis of reversible nitros(yl)ation or irreversible N-thiosulfoximidation of the sulfhydryl group of the cysteine moiety involved in the catalytic process is most likely not a rationale design of DDAH inhibitors. A major advantage of the present GC-MS assay over other assays is that DDAH activity is assessed by measuring the formation of the specific enzymatic product DMA but not the formation of unlabelled or (radio)labelled L-citrulline or the decay of the substrate ADMA. The GC-MS assay reported here should be suitable to probe for DDAH activity in various disease models.
11204222	Simple and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of 1,5-benzodiazepine clobazam and its active metabolite N-desmethylclobazam in human serum and urine with application to 1,4-benzodiazepines analysis.	A HPLC-UV determination of clobazam and N-desmethylclobazam in human serum and urine is presented. After simple liquid-liquid extraction with dichloromethane the compounds and an internal standard diazepam were separated on a Supelcosil LC-8-DB column at ambient temperature under isocratic conditions using the mobile phase: CH3CN-water-0.5 M KH2PO4-H3PO4 (440:540:20:0.4, v/v and 360:580:60:0.4, v/v for serum and urine, respectively). The detection was performed at 228 nm with limits of quantification of 2 ng/ml for serum and 1 ng/ml for urine. Relative standard deviations for intra- and inter-assay precision were found below 8% for both compounds for all the tested concentrations. The described procedure may be easily adapted for several 1,4-benzodiazepines.
15935822	Biomarkers of exposure and effect in Bulgarian petrochemical workers exposed to benzene.	Biomarkers of benzene exposure and effect were evaluated in 158 Bulgarian petrochemical workers and 50 matched controls. Air exposures to benzene averaged about 1.8 ppm, for workers and 0.02 ppm for controls. Urinary trans,trans-muconic acid, and S-phenylmuconic acid, showed dose response relationships with benzene air exposure. The dose response curve for DNA single strand breaks (SSB), but not for the metabolites, showed a saturation effect. NQO1 genotype had a significant effect on SSB. We conclude that the pathways for these metabolites may be distinct from those involved in some forms of genotoxic damage induced by benzene.
3898609	Human placental indanol dehydrogenase: some properties of the microsomal enzyme.	Indanol dehydrogenase activity of human placenta was examined in vitro. The enzyme, primarily localized in the particulate fractions of placenta, catalysed conversion of 1-indanol to 1-indanone in the presence of oxidized pyridine nucleotides. Both NAD+ and NADP+ supported the reaction with nearly equal efficiency.
20233841	CYP3A4 catalytic activity is induced in confluent Huh7 hepatoma cells.	Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is an important cause for disapproval, limitations of use, or withdrawal of drugs, and there is a high need for reproducible in vitro systems that can predict such toxicity. In this study, we show that confluent growth of the human hepatoma cell line Huh7 up to 5 weeks results in increased gene expression of several cytochromes P450 (P450s), UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, transporters, transcription factors, and several liver-specific genes, as measured by low-density array. The most striking effect was seen for CYP3A4 expression. Western blot analysis revealed increased amounts of CYP3A4 together with increased levels of NADPH-P450 reductase, cytochrome b(5), and albumin with prolonged time of confluence. By using the CYP3A4-specific substrates luciferin 6' benzyl ether, testosterone, and midazolam, we could confirm that the increased CYP3A4 gene expression also was accompanied by a similar increase in catalytic activity, inhibitable by the CYP3A4-selective inhibitor ketoconazole. The CYP3A4 activity in confluent cells was also inducible by rifampicin. Finally, the cell system could support the CYP3A4-dependent hepatotoxic activation of aflatoxin B(1), which was effectively inhibited by ketoconazole. Our results show that Huh7 cells grown confluent differentiate into a more metabolically competent cell line, especially with regard to CYP3A4.
20473609	Reductive metabolism of the dinitrobenzamide mustard anticancer prodrug PR-104 in mice.	PR-104, a bioreductive prodrug in clinical trial, is a phosphate ester which is rapidly metabolized to the corresponding alcohol PR-104A. This dinitrobenzamide mustard is activated by reduction to hydroxylamine (PR-104H) and amine (PR-104M) metabolites selectively in hypoxic cells, and also independently of hypoxia by aldo-keto reductase (AKR) 1C3 in some tumors. Here, we evaluate reductive metabolism of PR-104A in mice and its significance for host toxicity. The pharmacokinetics of PR-104, PR-104A and its reduced metabolites were investigated in plasma and tissues of mice (with and without SiHa or H460 tumor xenografts) and effects of potential oxidoreductase inhibitors were evaluated. Pharmacokinetic studies identified extensive non-tumor reduction of PR-104A to the 5-amine PR-104H (identity of which was confirmed by chemical synthesis), especially in liver. However, high concentrations of PR-104H in tumors that suggested intra-tumor activation is also significant. The tissue distribution of PR-104M/H was broadly consistent with the target organ toxicities of PR-104 (bone marrow, intestines and liver). Surprisingly, hepatic nitroreduction was not enhanced when the liver was made more hypoxic by hepatic artery ligation or breathing of 10% oxygen. A screen of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs identified naproxen as an effective AKR1C3 inhibitor in human tumor cell cultures and xenografts, suggesting its potential use to ameliorate PR-104 toxicity in patients. However, neither naproxen nor the pan-CYP inhibitor 1-aminobenzotriazole inhibited normal tissue reduction of PR-104A in mice. PR-104 is extensively reduced in mouse tissues, apparently via oxygen-independent two-electron reduction, with a tissue distribution that broadly reflects toxicity.
21657966	In vitro metabolism of dexamethasone cipecilate, a novel synthetic corticosteroid, in human liver and nasal mucosa.	Dexamethasone cipecilate (DX-CP, 9-fluoro-11,17,21-trihydroxy-16-methylpregna-1,4-diene-3,20-dione 21-cyclohexanecarboxylate 17-cyclopropanecarboxylate) is a novel synthetic corticosteroid used to treat allergic rhinitis. The pharmacological effect of DX-CP is considered to be mainly due to its active de-esterified metabolite (DX-17-CPC). To investigate the in vitro metabolism of DX-CP in human liver, DX-CP was incubated with human liver microsomes and S9. In addition, a metabolism study of DX-CP with human nasal mucosa was carried out in order to elucidate whether DX-17-CPC is formed in nasal mucosa, the site of action of DX-CP. DX-17-CPC was the major metabolite in both liver microsomes and S9. Two new epoxide metabolites, UK1 and UK2, were detected in liver S9, while only UK1 was detected in liver microsomes. This suggests that cytosol enzymes are responsible for the formation of UK2. In human nasal mucosa, DX-CP was mainly transformed into DX-17-CPC. By using recombinant human carboxylesterases (CESs), the reaction was shown to be catalyzed by CES2. These results provide the evidence that the active metabolite DX-17-CPC is the main contributor to the pharmacological action after the intranasal administration of DX-CP to humans.
15277014	In vitro assessment of intestinal permeability and hepatic metabolism of 4'-bromoflavone, a promising cancer chemopreventive agent.	1. The intestinal permeability and hepatic metabolism of the investigational cancer chemoprevention agent 4'-bromoflavone were investigated in vitro using human intestinal Caco-2 cell monolayers, human liver microsomes and human hepatocytes. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry were used for quantitative analysis in support of the Caco-2 cell studies and for the characterization of metabolites of 4'-bromoflavone. 2. The Caco-2 cell model indicated that 4'-bromoflavone would be absorbed by the intestine at a moderate rate by means of direction-independent, passive diffusion. There was no indication of active transport or efflux. 3. Three monohydroxylated metabolites and one monohydroxylated, hydrated metabolite of 4'-bromoflavone were detected at relatively low levels in the human liver microsomal and hepatocyte incubations. The structures of these metabolites were confirmed by comparison with synthetic standards. Hydroxylation occurred on the A-ring of 4'-bromoflavone but not on the B-ring, probably due to deactivation of the B-ring by bromine. No phase II metabolites were detected following incubation of 4'-bromoflavone in these in vitro systems. 4. In conclusion, these studies predict that 4'-bromoflavone should show moderate oral bioavailability, and that it would probably be excreted as unchanged compound and monohydroxylated metabolites. The results might be helpful in the design of clinical trials and in the interpretation of pharmacokinetic studies of 4'-bromoflavone.
433311	Metabolism of beclamide, N-benzyl-3-chloropropionamide, in man.	1. Following oral administration of [14C]beclamide to human subjects there was almost complete elimination of radioactivity in the urine within 48 h. 2. Less than 1% of the administered dose was excreted unchanged. 3. The major metabolites were (a) N-(4-hydroxybenzyl)-3-chloropropionamide, (4-hydroxybeclamide; c. 56%), which was eliminated to a small extent in the free form and as a sulphate but mainly as a glucuronide, and (b) hippuric acid (c. 20%). 4. Six minor metabolites were also detected, of which the following were identified: benzoic acid (up to c. 7%), N-(4-hydroxybenzyl-3-chloro-2-hydroxypropionamide, (dihydroxy-beclamide; c. 2%, mostly as a glucuronide) and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (c. 0.6%, partly as a glucuronide).
473793	Metabolic fate of noscapine. II. Isolation and identification of novel metabolites produced by C-C bond cleavage.	1. The metabolism of noscapine was studied in rabbits, rats and human. 2. Apart from the O-demethylated metabolites already reported, three metabolites were isolated and identified as meconine, cotarnine and hydrocotamine, respectively. 3. Mass fragmentography (chemical ionization) was used to determine these products simultaneously. 4. Meconine was the major metabolite in all three species, accounting for about 3, 8 and 2% of the dose in the first 24 h urines of rats, rabbits and humans, respectively, although one woman excreted to a very high extent (22%). In rats, cotarnine bases were excreted at almost same level as that of meconine, but at lesser extent in other two species. Hydrocotamine and unchanged noscapine were excreted to less than 1% dose.
23256623	Characterization of in vitro metabolites of luotonin A in human liver microsomes using electrospray/tandem mass spectrometry.	1. The pharmacological activity of luotonin A varies, depending on the type of functional group and the site of derivatization. To understand the in vivo efficacy of luotonin A, the in vitro metabolism of luotonin A was investigated in human liver microsomes and recombinant cDNA-expressed cytochromeP450 (CYP). 2. Incubation of luotonin A with pooled human liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH-generating system resulted in the formation of four metabolites and the structures of each metabolite were tentatively characterized on the basis of electrospray tandem mass spectra. 3. The main metabolic pathway of luotonin A in human liver microsomes was hydroxylation, resulting in the generation of two mono-hydroxyl metabolites (M1 and M2) and two di-hydroxyl metabolites (M3 and M4). CYP1A2 was primarily involved in hydroxylation of the quinolone moiety (M1 and M3), while CYP3A4 was mainly responsible for hydroxylation of the quinazoline moiety of luotonin A (M2 and M4) in human liver microsomes.
20980446	Delayed elimination of SN-38 in cancer patients with severe renal failure.	This prospective study is designed to examine the effects of severe renal failure on the pharmacokinetics of irinotecan. The pharmacokinetics of irinotecan, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), and SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G) in three cancer patients with severe renal failure [creatinine clearance (Ccr)  20 ml/min] who were undergoing dialysis and received 100 mg/m(2) irinotecan as monotherapy were prospectively compared with those in five cancer patients with normal renal function (Ccr  60 ml/min). To ensure that the subjects had similar genetic backgrounds of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1, patients with UGT1A1*1/*1, *1/*6, or *1/*28 were enrolled. The estimated terminal elimination rate constant of SN-38 in patients undergoing dialysis was approximately one tenth of that in patients with normal renal function (P = 0.025). Approximately 50% of SN-38 was dialyzed with a 2.1-m(2) dialysis membrane, whereas 27% was dialyzed with a 1.5-m(2) membrane. Our results showed that the elimination of SN-38 was significantly delayed in patients with severe renal failure compared with patients with normal renal function. We demonstrated that SN-38 was partly dialyzed.
8889674	Sweat testing in opioid users with a sweat patch.	For many years, toxicologists have detected the presence of drugs of abuse in biological materials using blood or urine. In recent years, remarkable advances in sensitive analytical techniques have enabled the analysis of drugs in unconventional samples such as sweat. In a study conducted in a detoxification center, sweat patches were applied to 20 known heroin abusers. Subjects wore the patch with minimal discomfort for five days. During the same period, two urine specimens were also collected. Target drugs analyzed either by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) included opiates (heroin, 6-monoacetylmorphine, morphine, codeine), cocaine (cocaine, benzoylecgonine, ecgonine methyl ester), delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol, benzodiazepines (nordiazepam, oxazepam), amphetamines (amphetamine, methamphetamine, methylenedioxyamphetamine [MDA], methylenedioxymethamphetamine [MDMA], methylenedioxyethylamphetamine [MDEA]), and buprenorphine. Patches were positive for opiates in 12 cases. Heroin (37-175 ng/patch) and/or 6-acetylmorphine (60-2386 ng/patch) were identified in eight cases, and codeine exposure (67-4018 ng/patch) was determined in four cases. When detected, heroin was always present in lower concentrations than 6-acetylmorphine, which was the major analyte found in sweat. Cocaine (324 ng/patch) and metabolites were found in only one case. delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (4-38 ng/patch) was identified in nine cases. Benzodiazepine concentrations were very low, ranging from 2 to 44 and from 2 to 15 ng/patch for nordiazepam and oxazepam, respectively. MDEA (121 ng/patch) and its metabolite, MDA (22 ng/patch), were detected in one case. Buprenorphine, which was administered as therapy under close medical supervision, was detected in the range 1.3-153.2 ng/patch with no apparent relationship between the daily dose and amount excreted in sweat. All the urine tests were consistent with the sweat findings, but to identify the same drugs it was necessary to test two urine specimens along with only one sweat specimen. It was concluded that sweat testing appears to offer the advantage of being a relatively noninvasive means of obtaining a cumulative estimate of drug exposure over the period of a week. This new technology may find useful applications in the treatment and monitoring of substance abusers, as the patch provides a long-term continuous monitor of drug exposure or noncompliance.
17080495	Characterization of in vitro metabolites of toad venom using high-performance liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	The characterization of the in vitro metabolites of toad venom, which has been widely used as a traditional Chinese drug, Ch'an Su, has been completed. Toad venom contains bufotoxins (such as marinobufotoxin; marinobufagin 3-suberoylarginine ester) and bufogenins (such as marinobufagin and bufalin) as the main cardiac steroids. An in vitro experiment using the rat or human liver cytosolic fraction disclosed that marinobufotoxin produced marinobufagin, but not its 3-hemisuberate. Marinobufagin was subjected to the enzyme reaction using the rat or human liver microsomal fraction together with NADPH and NAD, which produced 3-dehydromarinobufagin and 3-epimarinobufagin. Marinobufagin produced its 3-sulfate upon treatment with the rat or human liver cytosolic fraction and 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate. Bufalin was also subjected to the above enzyme reactions and showed almost the same results except for the result that the hydroxylation occurred at the 5beta-position. On the other hand, small amounts of marinobufagin 3-glucuronide were obtained only by treatment with the human liver microsomal fraction and uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid. The structures of these metabolites were confirmed using authentic samples regarding their high-performance liquid chromatographic behavior and/or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis.
12505783	Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of cis-9,10-epoxyoctadecanoic acid (cis-EODA). I. Direct evidence for cis-EODA formation from oleic acid oxidation by liver microsomes and isolated hepatocytes.	Oleic acid, cis-9-octadecenoic acid, is the major fatty acid in mammals. Its oxide, cis-9,10-epoxyoctadecanoic acid (cis-EODA), has been identified in blood and urine of humans, its origin is, however, still unknown. Lipid peroxidation and enzyme-catalyzed epoxidation of oleic acid are two possible sources. In the present article, we investigated by HPLC and GC-MS whether cis-EODA is formed enzymatically from oleic acid by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Oleic acid, cis-EODA and its hydratation product threo-9,10-dihydroxyoctadecanoic acid (threo-DiHODA) were quantitated by HPLC as their p-bromophenacyl esters. For structure elucidation by GC-MS, the pentafluorobenzyl (PFB) esters of these compounds were isolated by HPLC and converted to their trimethylsilyl ether derivatives. Liver microsomes of rats, rabbits and humans oxidized oleic acid into cis-EODA. This is the first direct evidence for the enzymatic formation of cis-EODA from oleic acid. The epoxidation of oleic acid was found to depend on CYP, NADPH+H(+), and O(2). cis-EODA was measurable in incubates of liver microsomes for up to 30 min of incubation. Maximum cis-EODA concentrations were reached after 5-7 min of incubation and found to depend upon oleic acid concentration. Isolated rat hepatocytes hydratated cis-EODA into threo-DiHODA which was further converted to unknown metabolites. However, from incubation of oleic acid with these cells we could not detect threo-DiHODA or cis-EODA. Our study suggests that circulating and excretory cis-EODA may originate, at least in part, from CYP-catalyzed epoxidation of oleic acid. GC-MS of intact cis-EODA as its PFB ester in the negative-ion chemical ionization mode should be useful in investigating the physiological role of cis-EODA in man.
16984946	Urinary pesticide concentrations among children, mothers and fathers living in farm and non-farm households in iowa.	In the spring and summer of 2001, 47 fathers, 48 mothers and 117 children of Iowa farm and non-farm households were recruited to participate in a study investigating take-home pesticide exposure. On two occasions approximately 1 month apart, urine samples from each participant and dust samples from various rooms were collected from each household and were analyzed for atrazine, metolachlor, glyphosate and chlorpyrifos or their metabolites. The adjusted geometric mean (GM) level of the urine metabolite of atrazine was significantly higher in fathers, mothers and children from farm households compared with those from non-farm households (P < or = 0.0001). Urine metabolites of chlorpyrifos were significantly higher in farm fathers (P = 0.02) and marginally higher in farm mothers (P = 0.05) when compared with non-farm fathers and mothers, but metolachlor and glyphosate levels were similar between the two groups. GM levels of the urinary metabolites for chlorpyrifos, metolachlor and glyphosate were not significantly different between farm children and non-farm children. Farm children had significantly higher urinary atrazine and chlorpyrifos levels (P = 0.03 and P = 0.03 respectively) when these pesticides were applied by their fathers prior to sample collection than those of farm children where these pesticides were not recently applied. Urinary metabolite concentration was positively associated with pesticide dust concentration in the homes for all pesticides except atrazine in farm mothers; however, the associations were generally not significant. There were generally good correlations for urinary metabolite levels among members of the same family.
22451244	Absorption of different oral dosage forms of oxycodone in the elderly: a cross-over clinical trial in patients undergoing cystoscopy.	To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oxycodone following intravenous injection and administration of three oral dosage forms (solution, capsule, and controlled-release tablet) in elderly patients (age 76-89years) undergoing cystoscopy. This was an open, randomized study with two sequences and two visits in 15 elderly patients. The patients were given intravenous injection (over 10min) of 5mg of oxycodone hydrochloride trihydrate. Oxycodone hydrochloride (5mg in all forms) was orally administered as a solution, a capsule, and a controlled-release tablet. Venous blood samples were collected up to 17h after oxycodone administration. Population PK parameters were calculated with NONMEM VI 2.0. For intravenous injection we calculated clearance, volume of distribution at steady state, and the half-life of elimination, and for oral dosage forms also the absolute bioavailability. Clearance of the intravenous injections was 28.9L/h; the volume of distribution at steady state and the half-life of elimination were 186L and 5.2h, respectively. The absolute bioavailability of oxycodone was 59% from oral solutions, 64% from capsules, and 55% from controlled-release tablets. Our results indicate that, in the elderly, the bioavailability of the three different oral dosage forms of oxycodone is fairly similar.
23000442	Selective inhibitory effects of mollugin on CYP1A2 in human liver microsomes.	Mollugin originally isolated from Rubia cordifolia is a pharmacological compound for its anti-inflammation, anti-cancer, and anti-viral activity. In the present study, a cocktail probe assay was performed for determination of the selective inhibitory effect of mollugin on cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in human liver microsomes (HLM). Incubation of isoform-specific substrate probes CYPs with mollugin (0-25M) in HLM resulted in strong inhibition of CYP1A2-catalyzed phenacetin O-deethylation, showing IC(50) values of 1.03 and 3.55M without and with pre-incubation, respectively. Mollugin-caused inhibition of phenacetin O-deethylation was concentration-dependent in HLMs, but not time-dependent. In addition, the Lineweaver-Burk plot indicated a typical competitive inhibition. Inhibitory effects of mollugin on human recombinant cDNA-expressed CYP1A1 and 1A2 were comparable. Taken together, the results suggested that mollugin might cause herb-drug interaction through selective inhibition of CYP1A2 in humans receiving herbal medications, including R. cordifolia.
23167531	Absorption, metabolism and excretion of darexaban (YM150), a new direct factor Xa inhibitor in humans.	1. The absorption, metabolism and excretion of darexaban (YM150), a novel oral direct factor Xa inhibitor, were investigated after a single oral administration of [(14)C]darexaban maleate at a dose of 60 mg in healthy male human subjects. 2.[(14)C]Darexaban was rapidly absorbed, with both blood and plasma concentrations peaking at approximately 0.75 h post-dose. Plasma concentrations of darexaban glucuronide (M1), the pharmacological activity of which is equipotent to darexaban in vitro, also peaked at approximately 0.75 h. 3. Similar amounts of dosed radioactivity were excreted via faeces (51.9%) and urine (46.4%) by 168 h post-dose, suggesting that at least approximately half of the administered dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. 4. M1 was the major drug-related component in plasma and urine, accounting for up to 95.8% of radioactivity in plasma. The N-oxides of M1, a mixture of two diastereomers designated as M2 and M3, were also present in plasma and urine, accounting for up to 13.2% of radioactivity in plasma. In faeces, darexaban was the major drug-related component, and N-demethyl darexaban (M5) was detected as a minor metabolite. 5. These findings suggested that, following oral administration of darexaban in humans, M1 is quickly formed during first-pass metabolism via UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, exerting its pharmacological activity in blood before being excreted into urine and faeces.
8890926	Haloperidol and its tetrahydropyridine derivative (HPTP) are metabolized to potentially neurotoxic pyridinium species in the baboon.	The in vivo metabolic fate of haloperidol (HP) and its tetrahydropyridine analog HPTP have been examined in the baboon to investigate the formation of potentially neurotoxic pyridinium metabolites that have been observed previously in humans. Urine samples collected from baboons treated with HPTP were shown to contain, in addition to the parent drug, the corresponding reduced HPTP (RHPTP), generated by reduction of the butyrophenone carbonyl group. RHPTP was characterized by comparison with a synthetic standard using HPLC with electrochemical detection and HPLC/MS/MS. Another compound identified by LC/MS/MS was a glucuronide metabolite of RHPTP. The HP pyridinium (HPP+) and reduced pyridinium (RHPP+) metabolites were shown to be present in urine from both HP and HPTP treated baboons by HPLC using fluorescence detection. The urinary excretion profile of HPP+ and RHPP+ in both groups was essentially identical and, in contrast to that observed in rodents, closely paralleled the profile found in humans treated with HP. These data in the baboon suggest that the metabolic processes involved in the production of the pyridinium metabolites of HP are similar to those in humans. Furthermore, the HPTP-treated baboon may be an appropriate model in which to study the role of pyridinium metabolites in the induction of tardive dyskinesia.
20937004	In vitro assessment of metabolic drugdrug interaction potential of AZD2624, neurokinin-3 receptor antagonist, through cytochrome P(450) enzyme identification, inhibition, and induction studies.	AZD2624 was pharmacologically characterized as a NK3 receptor antagonist intended for treatment of schizophrenia. The metabolic drug-drug interaction potential of AZD2624 was evaluated in in vitro studies. CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 appeared to be the primary enzymes mediating the formation of pharmacologically active ketone metabolite (M1), whereas CYP3A4, CYP3A5, and CYP2C9 appeared to be the enzymes responsible for the formation of the hydroxylated metabolite (M2). The apparent K(m) values were 1.5 and 6.3 M for the formation of M1 and M2 in human liver microsomes, respectively. AZD2624 exhibited an inhibitory effect on microsomal CYP3A4/5 activities with apparent IC(50) values of 7.1 and 19.8 M for midazolam and testosterone assays, respectively. No time-dependent inactivation of CYP3A4/5 activity (midazolam 1'-hydroxylation) by AZD2624 was observed. AZD2624 demonstrated weak to no inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6. AZD2624 was not an inducer of CYP1A2 or CYP2B6. Although AZD2624-induced CYP3A4 activity in hepatocytes, the potential of AZD2624 to cause inductive drug interactions of this enzyme was low at relevant exposure concentration. Together with targeted low efficacious concentration, the results of this study demonstrated AZD2624 has a relatively low metabolic drug-drug interaction potential towards co-administered drugs. However, metabolism of AZD2624 might be inhibited when co-administrated with potent CYP3A4/5 inhibitors.
19399790	Doping control analysis for adrafinil and its major metabolites in human urine.	A new and reliable two-step liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method in combination with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) for the screening and confirmation of adrafinil and its major metabolites, modafinil and modafinil acid, in human urine has been developed and validated. The method involved reversed-phase C18 solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridge extraction and MS analysis by means of LC/MS/MS and GC/MS. The study illustrated that the ESI capillary temperature played a key role in the formation of the protonated molecule. The limits of detection (LODs) of the developed method for the three compounds were lower than the minimum required performance limit (MRPL) of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The human urine samples obtained after the oral administration of modafinil and from the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games were analyzed by using the described method, which has also been successfully applied to routine analyses and the WADA Proficiency Test.
18047284	Polyphenols are intensively metabolized in the human gastrointestinal tract after apple juice consumption.	Polyphenols are secondary plant compounds showing anticarcinogenic effects both in vitro and in animal experiments and may thus reduce the risk of colorectal cancer in man. The identification of polyphenol metabolites formed via their passage through the small intestine of healthy ileostomy subjects after apple juice consumption is presented. Identification and quantification of polyphenols and their metabolites were performed using HPLC-DAD as well as HPLC-ESI-MS/MS. Total procyanidin content (TPA) was measured, and additionally the mean degree of polymerization (DPm) of the procyanidins was determined in the apple juice and ileostomy effluents. As products of polyphenol metabolism, D-(-)-quinic acid and methyl esters of caffeic acid and p-coumaric acid are liberated from the corresponding hydroxycinnamic acid esters. 1-Caffeoylquinic acid and 3-caffeoylquinic acid were determined as products of isomerization. Phloretin 2'-O-glucoside (phloridzin) and phloretin 2'-O-xyloglucoside were metabolized into the corresponding aglycons phloretin and phloretin 2'-O-glucuronide and all were found in the ileostomy effluent. Ninety percent of the consumed procyanidins were recovered in the ileostomy effluent and therefore would reach the colon under physiologic circumstances. The DP m was reduced (DP m of apple juice=5.7) and varied depending on the time point of excretion. The gastrointestinal passage seems to play an important role in the colonic availability of apple polyphenols.
11419761	Environmental and biological monitoring of occupational exposure to organic micropollutants in gasoline.	An exposure risk assessment of workers in a refinery production unit was undertaken. Gasoline and its main components were investigated through environmental and biological monitoring. Measured variables were environmental benzene, toluene, pentane and hexane; benzene and toluene in blood and urine; tt-MA (metabolite of benzene) in urine. Multivariate statistical analysis of the data showed that worker's exposure to the above substances fell within the limits specified by organisations such as ACGIH. Also, biological values complied with reference values (RV) for non-occupationally-exposed population. Different values of biological variables were determined by separating smokers from non-smokers: smokers had hematic and urinary benzene values significantly higher than non-smokers. During a 3-yr sampling, it was possible to identify a significant decrease of benzene in the workplace air and of hematic benzene for non-smokers. The most exposed department, one in which tank-lorries were loaded, needs further investigation and extended monitoring.
14581082	Enantioselective determination of lercanidipine in human plasma for pharmacokinetic studies by normal-phase liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	We describe here the first method for the enantioselective analysis of the calcium antagonist lercanidipine in human plasma by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) employing tandem mass spectrometric (MS) detection. Routine determination of lercanidipine enantiomers in human plasma in the working range of 0.025-50.0 ng ml(-1) plasma for each enantiomer with an accuracy and precision less than 15% was possible. Application of the method to a stereospecific study of the pharmacokinetics showed that plasma levels after an oral dose of rac-lercanidipine administered to a healthy volunteer were found to be higher for the (S)-enantiomer.
14570773	Metabolism of rofecoxib in vitro using human liver subcellular fractions.	The metabolism of rofecoxib, a potent and selective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2, was examined in vitro using human liver subcellular fractions. The biotransformation of rofecoxib was highly dependent on the subcellular fraction and the redox system used. In liver microsomal incubations, NADPH-dependent oxidation of rofecoxib to 5-hydroxyrofecoxib predominated, whereas NADPH-dependent reduction of rofecoxib to the 3,4-dihydrohydroxy acid metabolites predominated in cytosolic incubations. In incubations with S9 fractions, metabolites resulting from both oxidative and reductive pathways were observed. In contrast to microsomes, the oxidation of rofecoxib to 5-hydroxyrofecoxib by S9 fractions followed two pathways, one NADPH-dependent and one NAD+-dependent (non-cytochrome P450), with the latter accounting for about 40% of total activity. The 5-hydroxyrofecoxib thus formed was found to undergo NADPH-dependent reduction ("back reduction") to rofecoxib in incubations with liver cytosolic fractions. In incubations with dialyzed liver cytosol, net hydration of rofecoxib to form 3,4-dihydro-5-hydroxyrofecoxib was observed, whereas the 3,4-dihydrohydroxy acid derivatives were formed when NADPH was present. Although 3,4-dihydro-5-hydroxyrofecoxib could be reduced to the 3,4-dihydrohydroxy acid by cytosol in the presence of NADPH, the former species does not appear to serve as an intermediate in the overall reductive pathway of rofecoxib metabolism. In incubations of greater than 2 h with S9 fractions, net reductive metabolism predominated over oxidative metabolism. These in vitro results are consistent with previous findings on the metabolism of rofecoxib in vivo in human and provide a valuable insight into mechanistic aspects of the complex metabolism of this drug.
21561321	Intestinal transport of scutellarein and scutellarin and first-pass metabolism by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase-mediated glucuronidation of scutellarein and hydrolysis of scutellarin.	Scutellarin (SG) is a bioactive flavonoid used to treat cardiovascular disease. Scutellarein (S) is the aglycone form of SG. This study aimed to characterize their intestinal transport and first-pass metabolism by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase-mediated glucuronidation and -glucuronidase-mediated hydrolysis. Results showed that S is more readily passed through Caco-2 cell monolayers by passive diffusion than SG. SG was the predominant metabolite of S, which was formed during the transportation of S across Caco-2 cell monolayers or following incubation of S with human microsomes. SG was extensively generated in human liver microsomes (HLMs), which was demonstrated by its higher catalyzing efficiency (C(lint)) in liver microsomes than in human intestinal microsomes (HIMs). Enzymatic kinetic analysis indicated that the catalyzing efficiency of UGT1A9 was the highest among the tested UGTs under the present experimental conditions, followed by UGT1A1 and UGT1A3. No significant P450-mediated hydroxylation of S was found. SG may be hydrolyzed into S in both HLMs and HIMs.
16624837	PHosphatidylethanol (PEth) concentrations in blood are correlated to reported alcohol intake in alcohol-dependent patients.	Phosphatidylethanol (PEth) is an abnormal phospholipid formed only in the presence of ethanol by the enzyme phospholipase D. PEth in blood is a promising new marker for ethanol abuse. None of the biological markers used at the present time is sensitive and specific enough for the diagnosis of alcoholism. The most frequently used alcohol markers [carbohydrate deficient transferrin (CDT), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV)] were studied together with PEth in actively drinking alcohol-dependent patients (inpatients and outpatients), with regard to correlation to ethanol intake and diagnostic sensitivity of the markers. The relation between the markers was also studied. PEth, CDT, and GGT correlated to ethanol intake, with the strongest correlation found for PEth. The diagnostic sensitivity for PEth was 99%, and for other markers it varied between 40 and 77%. Only when CDT was combined with GGT was a sensitivity of 94% reached. PEth correlated to CDT and GGT but not to MCV. CDT did not correlate to GGT or MCV. Blood concentrations of PEth are highly correlated to ethanol intake, and the present results indicate that its diagnostic sensitivity is higher than that for previously established alcohol markers.
17002471	Iron uptake by Caco-2 cells from NaFeEDTA and FeSO4: Effects of ascorbic acid, pH, and a Fe(II) chelating agent.	Sodium iron(III) ethylenediaminetetraacetate (NaFeEDTA) has considerable promise as an iron fortificant because of its high bioavailability in foods containing iron absorption inhibitors. In this study, uptakes of iron from NaFeEDTA, FeSO4, and FeCl3 by Caco-2 cells were compared in the absence or presence of ascorbic acid (AA), an iron absorption enhancer; at selected pH levels; and in the absence or presence of an iron absorption inhibitor, bathophenanthroline disulfonic acid (BPDS). Ferritin formation in the cells was used as the indicator of iron uptake. Uptake from all three Fe sources was similar in the absence of AA. Adding AA at a 5:1 molar excess as compared to Fe increased uptake by 5.4-, 5.1-, and 2.8-fold for FeSO4, FeCl3, and NaFeEDTA, respectively. The smaller effect of AA on uptake from NaFeEDTA may be related to the higher solubility of NaFeEDTA and/or the strong binding affinity of EDTA for Fe3+, which may prevent AA and duodenal cytochrome b from effectively reducing EDTA-bound Fe. Uptake was inversely related to the pH of the media over a range of 5.8-7.2. Because uptake by DMT-1 is proton-coupled, the inverse relationship between pH and Fe uptake in all three iron sources suggests that they all follow the DMT-1 pathway into the cell. Adding BPDS to the media inhibited uptake from all three iron compounds equally. Because BPDS binds Fe2+ but not Fe3+ and because only Fe2+ is transported by DMT-1, the finding that BPDS inhibited uptake from NaFeEDTA suggests that at least some iron dissociates from EDTA and is reduced just as simple inorganic iron at the brush border membrane of the enterocyte. Taken together, these results suggest that uptake of iron from NaFeEDTA by intestinal enterocytes is regulated similarly to uptake from iron salts.
17627976	A comparison of the expression and metabolizing activities of phase I and II enzymes in freshly isolated human lung parenchymal cells and cryopreserved human hepatocytes.	The pulmonary and hepatic expression and catalytic activities of phase I and II drug-metabolizing enzymes were compared using human lung and liver tissue, and lung parenchymal cells (LPCs) and cryopreserved hepatocytes. Cytochrome P450 gene expression was generally lower in lung than in liver and CYP3A4 expression in lung was negligible. Esterase gene expression was similar in lung and liver. Expression of all sulfotransferase isoforms in lung was similar to or higher than that in liver. Lung tissue expressed low levels of UGT. However, the expression of UGT2A1 in lung was higher than that in liver. There was a range of catalytic activities in LPCs, including cytochrome P450, esterase, and sulfation pathways. Phase I activities were generally less than 10% of those determined in hepatocytes. Rates of ester hydrolysis and sulfation in LPCs were similar to those in hepatocytes. When measurable, glucuronidation in LPCs was present at very low levels, reflecting the gene expression data. The metabolism of salbutamol, formoterol, and budesonide was also investigated. Production of salbutamol-4-O-sulfate and budesonide oleate was observed in LPCs from at least two of three donor preparations studied. Formoterol sulfate and low levels of formoterol glucuronide were detected in one of three donors. In general, drug-metabolizing capability of LPCs is low compared with liver, although some evidence for substantial sulfation and deesterification capacity was observed. Therefore, these data support the use of this cell-based system for the investigation of key routes of xenobiotic metabolism in human lung parenchyma.
9014200	Imipramine metabolism in relation to the sparteine oxidation polymorphism--a family study.	The relationship between genetic polymorphism and imipramine metabolism has never been studied in a family study. A sparteine/mephenytoin test was carried out in 31 parents and 20 siblings of 18 Danish poor metabolizers of sparteine (PMs). One week later, each subject took 25 mg imipramine followed by urine collection for 24 h. The urinary content of imipramine, desipramine, 2-hydroxy-imipramine and 2-hydroxy-desipramine was assayed by HPLC. There were 10 PMs (20%; 9.8-33%, 95% confidence interval) and 41 extensive metabolizers of sparteine (EMs) among parents and siblings. In 26 of the 28 PMs among probands and relatives, there were concordance between phenotype and genotype: D6-A/D6-D (n = 2), D6-A/D6-B (n = 5), D6-B/(n = 15) or D6-B/D6-D (n = 4). Two PMs were apparently heterozygous (EMs), D6-wt/D6-B. Accordingly, based on the present sample of 28 PMs the specificity of the genotype test was 100% and the sensitivity was 92.9%. Two EMs were homozygous dominant D6-wt/and 39 were heterozygous EMs; D6-wt/D6-D (n = 5), D6-wt/D6-B (n = 27), D6-wt/D6-A (n = 6), D6-wt/D6-wt* (unknown mutation) (n = 1). As previously reported in a population study the hydroxylation ratios (i.e. 2-hydroxymetabolite over parent compound) of imipramine were much lower in PMs than in EMs. This and the pedigrees confirmed the co-segregation of sparteine oxidation, imipramine 2-hydroxylation and the CYP2D6 genotype. None of the hydroxylation ratios could separate EMs and PMs completely, mainly because the 2-hydroxylation of imipramine also depends on P450s other than CYP2D6.
21004	The gas chromatography mass spectrometry of the major metabolites of flurazepam.	Mass spectra and gas chromatographic data are presented for flurazepam and its metabolites; monodesethylflurazepam, didesethylflurazepam, hydroxyethylflurazepam, N1-desalkylflurazepam, N1-desalkyl-3-hydroxy-flurazepam, and flurazepam-N1-acetic acid. The on-column thermal degradation of didesethylflurazepam, N1-desalkyl-3-hydroxyflurazepam and flurazepam-N1-acetic acid is reported and discussed. Mass spectrometric and gas chromatographic data are also presented for the benzophenones obtained by acid hydrolysis of flurazepam and its metabolites. The occurrence of flurazepam metabolites in urine from five forensic cases after various treatments has been investigated. A possible new 'metabolite' of flurazepam was detected in two of these cases.
23595344	A UGT1A1*28 and *6 genotype-directed phase I dose-escalation trial of irinotecan with fixed-dose capecitabine in Korean patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.	UGT1A1 genotypes are important when considering treatment with irinotecan-containing regimens. In this study, we determined the dose, efficacy, and tolerability of irinotecan according to UGT1A1 genotypes when combined with capecitabine in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Patients with histologically confirmed metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum were enrolled into a UGT1A1 genotype-directed dose-escalation trial of irinotecan plus fixed-dose capecitabine (2,000 mg/m(2)/day). The starting dose of irinotecan was different for each genotype group and ranged from 200 to 280 mg/m(2). Pharmacokinetic concentrations of irinotecan and metabolites were determined by LC/MS/MS. Fifty patients were genotyped for UGT1A1 *28 and *6, and grouped according to the numbers of defective alleles (DA): 0, 1, and 2. Plasma concentrations of irinotecan, SN-38, and SN-38G were measured. The maximum tolerated dose of irinotecan was 350 mg/m(2) for the 0 and 1 DA groups, and 200 mg/m(2) for the 2 DA group. For the 0, 1, and 2 DA groups, mean AUClast ratios of SN-38G to SN-38 were 7.72, 5.71, and 2.72 (P = 0.0023) and relative dose intensities at recommended dose were 85, 83, and 97 %. Irinotecan dosing based on UGT1A1*28 and *6 is feasible, and higher doses of irinotecan can be safely administered in patients with 0 or 1 DA, compared to those with 2 DA.
18400445	HPLC analysis of the antidepressant trazodone and its main metabolite m-CPP in human plasma.	The present paper deals with the development of a rapid and feasible high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of trazodone and its main active metabolite 3-(1-clorophenyl)piperazine (m-CPP) in human plasma. Trazodone is a second-generation antidepressant with serotonin antagonist activity. The metabolite seems to be involved in the onset of some side effects of trazodone therapy, thus its determination is very important during therapeutic drug monitoring. Separation was achieved using a C8 reversed-phase column and a mobile phase composed of aqueous phosphate buffer (70%), containing triethylamine, at pH 3.5 and acetonitrile (30%). The UV detector was set at 255 nm and loxapine was used as the internal standard. An original pre-treatment procedure of plasma samples was developed, based on solid-phase extraction with C8 reversed phase cartridges (50mg, 1 mL). The obtained extraction yields values were higher than 90% and precision, expressed as R.S.D., was lower than 5.6%. The method was successfully applied to plasma samples from depressed patients undergoing therapy with trazodone; accuracy results were satisfactory (recovery >91%). Thus, the method seems to be suitable for the therapeutic drug monitoring of trazodone and its main active metabolite in depressed patients' plasma.
15684507	Uptake and metabolism of ginsenoside Rh2 and its aglycon protopanaxadiol by Caco-2 cells.	The uptake and metabolism profiles of ginsenoside Rh2 and its aglycon protopanaxadiol (ppd) were studied in the human epithelial Caco-2 cell line. High-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was applied to determine Rh2 and its aglycon ppd concentration in the cells at different pH, temperature, concentration levels and in the presence or absence of inhibitors. Rh2 uptake was time and concentration dependent, and its uptake rates were reduced by metabolic inhibitors and influenced by low temperature, thus indicating that the absorption process was energy-dependent. Drug uptake was maximal when the extracellular pH was 7.0 for Rh2 and 8.0 for ppd. Rh2 kinetic analysis showed that a non-saturable component (Kd 0.17 nmol x h(-1) x mg(-1) protein) and an active transport system with a Km of 3.95 micromol x l(-1) and a Vmax of 4.78 nmol x h(-1) x mg(-1)protein were responsible for the drug uptake. Kinetic analysis of ppd showed a non-saturable component (Kd 0.78 nmol x h(-1) x mg(-1) protein). It was suggested that active extrusion of P-glycoprotein and drug degradation in the intestine may influence Rh2 bioavailability.
17950511	The inhibitory effect of tannic acid on cytochrome P450 enzymes and NADPH-CYP reductase in rat and human liver microsomes.	Tannic acid has been shown to decrease mutagenicity and/or carcinogenicity of several amine derivatives and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in rodents. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of tannic acid on cytochrome P450 (CYP)-catalyzed oxidations using rat liver microsomes (RLM) and human liver microsomes (HLM) as the enzyme sources. In RLM, tannic acid showed a non-selective inhibitory effect on 7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylation (MROD), 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD), tolbutamide hydroxylation, p-nitrophenol hydroxylation and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation activities with IC(50) values ranged from 14.9 to 27.4 microM. In HLM, tannic acid inhibited EROD, MROD and phenacetin O-deethylation activities with IC(50) values ranged from 5.1 to 7.5 microM, and diclofenac 4-hydroxylation, dextromethorphan O-demethylation, chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation and testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation with IC(50) values ranged from 20 to 77 microM. In baculovirus-insect cell-expressed human CYP 1A1 and 1A2, the IC(50) values of tannic acid for CYP 1A1- and 1A2-catalyzed EROD activities were 23.1 and 2.3 microM, respectively, indicating that tannic acid preferably inhibited the activity of CYP1A2. Tannic acid inhibited human CYP1A2 non-competitively with a Ki value of 4.8 microM. Tannic acid was also found to inhibit NADPH-CYP reductase in RLM and HLM with IC(50) values of 11.8 and 17.4 microM, respectively. These results suggested that the inhibition of CYP enzyme activities by tannic acid may be partially attributed to its inhibition of NADPH-CYP reductase activity.
18197557	Metabolism of OR-1896, a metabolite of levosimendan, in rats and humans.	OR-1896 is a pharmacologically active, long-lived metabolite of levosimendan. In the current study, the metabolism of (14)C-labelled OR-1896 was investigated in six healthy men after intravenous infusion over 10 min and in male rats after an intravenous bolus dose. In human plasma, the only (14)C-compounds detected were (14)C-OR-1896 and its deacetylated form, (14)C-OR-1855, in varying proportions in different subjects. In rat plasma >93% of radioactivity was associated with OR-1896. Radioactivity was mainly excreted to urine in both rats (about 69% of the dose) and humans (about 87% of the dose). OR-1896 was a major urinary compound in both humans and rats. Another major human metabolite was hypothesized as N-conjugated OR-1855. Other human and rat urinary biotransformation products were characterized as N-hydroxylated OR-1896 and N-hydroxylated OR-1855, as well as glucuronide or sulphate conjugates of N-hydroxyl OR-1896. The main difference between rat and human metabolism was a lower amount of OR-1855-related metabolites in the rats. In human faecal homogenates, only OR-1896 and OR-1855 were detected, whereas rat faecal metabolite profile was similar to that in urine.
19358519	Identification of quinone methide metabolites of dauricine in human liver microsomes and in rat bile.	Dauricine is one type of the bisbenzyltetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid derivative with antiarrhythmic effects. Severe liver toxicity was observed in experimental animals treated with analogues of dauricine, which may be caused by covalent binding of reactive metabolite(s) to critical macromolecules in tissues. The study described herein aimed at characterizing pathways of dauricine bioactivation and the CYP enzyme involved. In incubations of dauricine with NADPH- and GSH-supplemented human liver microsomes, four GSH conjugates with [M + H]+ ions at m/z 930, 916, 916, and 902, respectively, were detected by liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry. The structures of the four metabolites were determined to be GSH conjugates of dauricine, 2-N-demethyl dauricine, 2'-N-demethyl dauricine, and N-demethyl-O-demethyl dauricine. GSH conjugation took place with a strong preference at C-17, suggesting that the phenol moiety of dauricine and its metabolites underwent oxidation to quinone methide intermediates. The formation of the GSH conjugates was found to require the presence of NADPH. To identify the CYP isoforms that are responsible for bioactivation, dauricine was also incubated with recombinant human CYP450 enzymes. The formation of GSH was only observed with the incubation of CYP3A4. In addition, the level of these GSH conjugates in human microsomes was reduced upon the addition of a CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole. The same GSH conjugates were also observed in rat bile following a single oral dose of 40 mg/kg dauricine. These studies suggest that the CYP3A4 mediated quinone methide formation was associated with dauricine bioactivation.
16755608	The metabolism and excretion of 2-methylaminoethoxycarbonyl-4,4'-dimethoxy-5,6,5',6'-dimethylenedioxybiphenyl-2'-carboxylic acid (DDB-S) in rats and human.	The metabolism and excretion of 2-methylaminoethoxycarbonyl-4,4'-dimethoxy-5,6,5',6'-dimethylenedioxybiphenyl-2'-carboxylic acid (DDB-S) were investigated in both rats and humans using liquid chromatography/electrospray ion trap mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS). In rats, DDB-S was rapidly eliminated from the body after a single 50 mg/kg intravenous injection, with urine being a major excretion route. DDB-S was metabolically stable; approximately 96% of the administered dose was recovered in the form of the parent compound. Nevertheless, 12 metabolites were detected in the urine and feces collected from DDB-S-treated rats. The structural characterizations of the metabolites were elucidated from the MS(n) spectral analysis. Because DDB-S has a pseudo-symmetrical methylenedioxy biphenyl structure, regioselective deuterium-substituted DDB-S (d(5)-DDB-S) was used to assign the metabolic modification. The major metabolic pathways of DDB-S were identified as demethylenation of the methylenedioxy moiety, O-demethylation of the methoxy moiety and glucuronidation. In addition, N-demethylation of the methylaminoethyl group was also detected as a minor reaction.
3751114	Effects of brotizolam on mixed-function oxidases and glutathione metabolism in the rat.	Intra-gastric administration of brotizolam (0.1-200 mg/kg) daily for three days to rats resulted in no significant changes in the hepatic and intestinal cytochrome P-450-dependent or P-448-dependent mixed-function oxidases, or in the hepatic flavoprotein dimethylaniline N-oxidase. Liver microsomes from mouse, rat and man metabolized brotizolam by hydroxylation of the diazepine ring and of the methyl group at rates which were greater for mouse greater than rat greater than man. Brotizolam and its metabolites generated by rat-liver microsomes in vitro were not mutagenic in the Ames' test. Brotizolam, at 200 mg/kg per day for two to six weeks, depleted liver glutathione concentration and markedly increased liver gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione transferase activities. Similar changes were not seen at the lower dose of 0.3 mg/kg. The observed increases in glutathione metabolism and the decreased tissue concentration of glutathione are indicative of high levels of glutathione conjugation, and provide a possible explanation for the equivocal increase in tumorigenicity seen in rats receiving brotizolam at high dosage.
16419392	Usefulness of roadside urine drug screening in drivers suspected of driving under the influence of drugs (DUID).	In Belgium, the driving under the influence of drugs (DUID) procedure consists of three steps: observation of external signs of drug consumption by a police officer; an on-site urine test for amphetamines, cannabinoids, cocaine, and opiates; and blood sampling by a physician for gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. The driver is sanctioned if THC is greater than 2 ng/mL, morphine is greater than 20 ng/mL, or amphetamine, methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), methylenedioxyethylamphetamine, N-methyl-1-(3.4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2-butanamine, cocaine, or benzoylecgonine are greater than 50 ng/mL in plasma. We analyzed the results of 450 blood samples taken from May 2000 to February 2005. Cannabis was most often found above the cut-off (73.5% of the cases), followed by MDMA (20.4%), amphetamine (19.8%), benzoylecgonine (17.9%), cocaine (6.9%), and morphine (2.7%). One drug was found in 72.0% of the cases, two drugs in 22.6%, three drugs in 5.2%, and four drugs in 0.25%. In 10.7% of the plasma samples no target drugs were found above the legal cut-off. This percentage was 8.4% when urine was obtained and tested on-site and 21.2% when no urine was obtained (chi2 = 8.574, P = 0.0034). In 64.6% of these samples, a target drug (THC in 74.2%) was found under the legal cut-off. These data indicate that roadside urine testing significantly decreases the number of unnecessary blood analyses in DUID.
17132764	Evaluation of cryopreserved human hepatocytes as an alternative in vitro system to microsomes for the prediction of metabolic clearance.	Human liver microsomes have typically resulted in marked underprediction of in vivo human intrinsic clearance (CL(int)); therefore, the utility of cryopreserved hepatocytes as an alternative in vitro system has become an important issue. In this study, 10 compounds (tolbutamide, diclofenac, S-warfarin, S-mephenytoin, dextromethorphan, bufuralol, quinidine, nifedipine, testosterone, and terfenadine) were selected as substrate probes for CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4, and the kinetics of metabolite formation (n = 14 pathways) were investigated in three individual lots of cryopreserved hepatocytes and in a pool of human liver microsomes. For the majority of the compounds, lower unbound K(M) or S(50) values were observed in hepatocytes compared with microsomes, on average by 50% over a 200-fold range (0.5-140 microM). Expressed on an equivalent liver weight basis, a good correlation between microsomal and hepatocyte V(max) values was observed for most pathways greater than 5 orders of magnitude (0.16-216 nmol/min/g liver). Unbound hepatocyte CL(int) (CL(int,u)) values, when scaled to the whole liver (range 0.38-4000 ml/min/kg), were on average 2.5-fold higher than microsomal CL(int,u) values, with the exception of tolbutamide and diclofenac, for which lower hepatocellular CL(int,u) values were observed. Hepatocyte predicted CL(int) values were compared with human in vivo CL(int) values, and to supplement our data, in vitro data from cryopreserved hepatocytes were collated from four other published sources. These data show that for 37 drugs, there is, on average, a 4.5-fold under-prediction of the in vivo CL(int) using cryopreserved hepatocytes, representing a significant reduction in prediction bias compared with human microsomes.
16790555	Human metabolism of nebicapone (BIA 3-202), a novel catechol-o-methyltransferase inhibitor: characterization of in vitro glucuronidation.	Nebicapone (BIA 3-202; 1-[3,4-dihydroxy-5-nitrophenyl]-2-phenylethanone), a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor, is mainly metabolized by glucuronidation. The purpose of this study was to characterize the major plasma metabolites of nebicapone following p.o. administration of nebicapone to healthy volunteers, and to determine the human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes involved in nebicapone glucuronidation. Plasma samples were collected as part of a clinical trial at different time points postdose and were analyzed for nebicapone and its metabolites using a validated method consisting of a solid-phase extraction, followed by high-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry detection. The primary metabolic pathways of nebicapone in humans involve mainly 3-O-glucuronidation, the major early metabolite, and 3-O-methylation, the predominant late metabolite. Of the nine commercially available recombinant UGT enzymes studied (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A6, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT1A10, UGT2B7, and UGT2B15), only UGT1A9 exhibited high nebicapone glucuronosyltransferase specific activity (24.3 +/- 1.3 nmol/mg protein/min). UGT1A6, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A10, UGT2B7, and UGT2B15 exhibited low activity (0.1-1.1 nmol/mg protein/min), and UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 showed extremely low activities (less than 0.03 nmol/mg protein/min). The results show that nebicapone is mainly glucuronidated in humans and that multiple UGT enzymes are involved in this reaction.
15383493	Expression of human cytochromes P450 in chimeric mice with humanized liver.	Recently, a chimeric mouse line in which the liver could be replaced by more than 80% with human hepatocytes was established in Japan. Because the chimeric mouse produces human albumin (hAlb), replacement by human hepatocytes could be estimated by the hAlb concentration in the blood of chimeric mice. In this study, we investigated human major cytochrome P450 (P450) in the livers of chimeric mice by mRNA, protein, and enzyme activity using real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blot analysis, and high-performance liquid chromatography, respectively. Chimeric mice with humanized liver generated using hepatocytes from a Japanese and white donor were used. Human P450 mRNAs were expressed in the liver of chimeric mice, and major human P450 proteins such as CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4 were detected. The expression of P450 mRNA and protein was correlated with the hAlb concentration in the blood. The enzyme activities such as diclofenac 4'-hydroxylase activity, dexamethasone 6-hydroxylase activity, and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity, activities that are specific to human P450 but not to murine P450, were increased in a hAlb concentration-dependent manner. The chimeric mice with nearly 90% replacement by human hepatocytes demonstrated almost the same protein contents of human P450s and drug-metabolizing enzyme activity as those of the donor. It was confirmed that genomic DNA from the livers of the chimeric mice and that from the liver of the donor exhibited the same genotype. In conclusion, the chimeric mice exhibited a similarly efficient capacity of drug metabolism as humans, suggesting that they could be a useful animal model for drug development.
16946554	Characterization of humanized liver from chimeric mice using coumarin as a human CYP2A6 and mouse CYP2A5 probe.	Coumarin 7-hydroxylation (COH), which is catalyzed almost solely by human CYP2A6 and mouse CYP2A5, shows large differences in activity (humans>>mice) and inhibitor specificity between mice and humans. To differentiate human and mouse liver functions of chimeric mice (CM1, CM2 and CM3) prepared with hepatocytes from 3 donors, the microsomal COH activities were measured with and without benzaldehyde and undecanoic gamma-lactone as a specific inhibitor of human CYP2A6 and mice CYP2A5, respectively. The replacement % to human hepatocytes designated as replacement index (RI) was calculated from human specific cytokeratin 8/18 expression in the liver section. The COH activities correlated well with RIs in CM2 (R(2)=0.98) and CM3 (R(2)=0.94), except CM1 whose genotype of donor is CYP2A6*4/*4. However, the COH activities expressed as % of donor activities were not always coincident with RIs, and the inhibition pattern of CM2 and CM3 was human-type after RI exceeded approximately 50%. Subsequently, our attempts to use % of COH activities or inhibition patterns as an accurate functional replacement index were unsuccessful. Since the detection of human CYP2A6 protein in the liver and the steep increase of human albumin (hAlb) levels in the blood were begun from almost RI=50% similarly to the changes of inhibition pattern, RI=50% is the turning point for chimeric mice to have humanized liver function.
23142064	Psychoactive substances in seriously injured drivers in Denmark.	This study assesses the presence of a number of psychoactive substances, including alcohol, based on blood samples from 840 seriously injured drivers admitted to five selected hospitals located in five different regions of Denmark. The study was a part of the EU 6th framework program DRUID (Driving Under the Influence of Drugs, Alcohol and Medicines). Blood samples were screened for 30 illegal and legal psychoactive substances and metabolites as well as ethanol. Danish legal limits were used to evaluate the frequency of drivers violating the Danish legislation while limit of quantification (LOQ) was used for monitoring positive drivers. Tramadol is not included in the Danish legislation therefore the general cut off, as decided in the DRUID project was used. Overall, ethanol (18%) was the most frequently identified compound (alone or in combination with other drugs) exceeding the legal limit, which is 0.53g/l in Denmark. The percentage of seriously injured drivers testing positive for medicinal drugs at levels above the Danish legal limit was 6.8%. Benzodiazepines and Z-drugs (6.4%) comprised the majority of this group. One or more illegal drugs (primarily amphetamines and cannabis) were found to be above the Danish legal limit in 4.9% of injured drivers. Young men (median age 31 years) were over-represented among injured drivers who violated Danish law for alcohol and drugs. Diazepam (4.4%), tramadol (3.2%), and clonazepam (3.0%) were the medicinal drugs most frequently detected at levels above LOQ, whereas amphetamines (5.4%) (amphetamine [5.2%] and methamphetamine [1.5%]), tetrahydrocannabinol (3.7%), and cocaine (3.3%), including the metabolite benzoylecgonine, were the most frequently detected illegal drugs. A driver could be positive for more than one substance; therefore, percentages are not mutually exclusive. Poly-drug use was observed in 112 (13%) seriously injured drivers. Tramadol was detected above DRUID cutoffs in 2.1% of seriously injured drivers. This is 3.5 times that observed in a Danish survey of randomly selected drivers. Moreover, illegal and medicinal drug levels above the Danish legal limit were present more than 10 times as frequently as in injured drivers, whereas ethanol was present more than 30 times as frequently than in randomly selected drivers. The results indicate that there is an increased risk in traffic when driving under the influence of psychoactive drugs, especially alcohol in young male drivers.
19701802	Determination of basic drugs of abuse in human serum by online extraction and LC-MS/MS.	A new quantitation method for the determination of drugs of abuse (opiates, amphetamine and derivatives, cocaine, methadone and metabolites) in serum by using online extraction coupled to liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectrometry (MS)/MS has been developed. The online extraction is carried out using two extraction columns simultaneously and one analytical column. One extraction column is loaded, while the other one is eluted by a gradient. The elution gradient also separates the analytes in the analytical column. For the sample preparation, serum is spiked with a mixture of deuterated analogues of the drugs. After protein precipitation with methanol/zinc sulphate, centrifugation, evaporation and reconstitution, the sample is injected into the LC system. The quantitation is based on the analysis of two multiple reaction monitoring transitions per drug. The recovery of the protein precipitation step is over 80% for all analytes. Intra- and interday precision, as relative standard deviation, is lower than 6%, and in the case of accuracy, RE is lower than 15%. Only the most polar analytes showed matrix effects. The limits of quantitation for the analysed compounds vary between 0.5 and 2.8 ng/mL. The developed method was used to quantify basic drugs in samples "from driving under the influence of drugs" cases. The results were compared with those obtained by using solid-phase extraction-GC-MS.
17011523	Identification of glyburide metabolites formed by hepatic and placental microsomes of humans and baboons.	Glyburide (glibenclamide) is a second-generation sulfonylurea used for treatment of type-2 and gestational diabetes mellitus. To date, two glyburide metabolites have been identified in maternal urine: namely, 4-trans-hydroxycyclohexyl glyburide and 3-cis-hydroxycyclohexyl glyburide. The use of glyburide to treat gestational diabetes prompted us to investigate its metabolism by the placenta. The metabolism of glyburide by microsomal preparations from human and baboon placenta was compared with metabolism by their livers. The metabolites formed by the microsomes of the four tissues were identified by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry using retention times, ion current (extracted at m/z 510), and selected-ion monitoring. The data obtained revealed the formation of six distinct hydroxylated derivatives of glyburide by each of the four microsomal preparations. However, the amounts of the six metabolites formed by the placentas were a fraction of that formed by the livers. Moreover, the relative quantities of each metabolite formed differed between species as well as between the two tissues. Also, the structure of the unidentified metabolites was determined by comparison with synthesized standards. These metabolites were identified as the 4-cis-hydroxycyclohexyl glyburide, 3-trans-hydroxycyclohexyl glyburide, and 2-trans-hydroxycyclohexyl glyburide. Therefore, one glyburide metabolite remains to be identified, but the data we obtained allowed us to suggest its structure.
19225040	Different inhibitory effects in rat and human carboxylesterases.	In vitro inhibition studies on drug-metabolizing enzyme activity are useful for understanding drug-drug interactions and for drug development. However, the profile of the inhibitory effects of carboxylesterase (CES) activity has not been fully investigated concerning species and tissue differences. In the present study, we measured the inhibitory effects of 15 drugs and 1 compound on CES activity using liver and jejunum microsomes and cytosol in human and rat. In addition, the inhibition constant (K(i) values) and patterns were determined for the compounds exhibiting strong inhibition. Hydrolysis of imidapril and irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11) is catalyzed mainly by CES1 and CES2, respectively. In the inhibition study, imidaprilat formation from imidapril in human liver was strongly inhibited by nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) and procainamide. The inhibition profile and pattern were similar in human liver and rat liver. The compounds showing potent inhibition were similar between liver and jejunum. The K(i) value of NDGA (K(i) = 13.3 +/- 1.5 microM) in human liver microsomes was 30-fold higher than that in rat liver microsomes (K(i) = 0.4 +/- 0.0 microM). On the other hand, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) formation from CPT-11 was not inhibited except by carvedilol, manidipine, and physostigmine. The K(i) value of physostigmine (K(i) = 0.3 +/- 0.0 microM) in human jejunum cytosol was 10-fold lower than that in rat jejunum cytosol (K(i) = 3.1 +/- 0.4 microM) and was similar to that for manidipine. The present study clarified the species differences in CES inhibition. These results are useful for the development of prodrugs.
7586929	Effects of felbamate on the pharmacokinetics of the monohydroxy and dihydroxy metabolites of oxcarbazepine.	The effects of felbamate on the multiple dose pharmacokinetics of the monohydroxy and dihydroxy metabolites of oxcarbazepine were assessed in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind crossover study in 18 healthy male volunteers. Oxcarbazepine, 1200 mg/day, was administered on an open basis in combination with double-blind placebo or 2400 mg/day felbamate for two 10-day treatment periods separated by a 14-day washout period. Pharmacokinetic parameters of monohydroxyoxcarbazepine and dihydroxyoxcarbazepine were determined from plasma and urine samples obtained on the tenth day of each treatment period. Felbamate had no effect on monohydroxyoxcarbazepine plasma or urine pharmacokinetics compared with placebo, but it significantly increased values for dihydroxyoxcarbazepine maximum concentration and area under the curve from 0 to 12 hours, as well as urinary excretion of free and total dihydroxyoxcarbazepine. The mechanism that may account for the observations is the induction of oxidative metabolism of monohydroxyoxcarbazepine. Despite these changes, the relative amount of dihydroxyoxcarbazepine is small in comparison to monohydroxyoxcarbazepine, and antiepileptic activity is associated with monohydroxyoxcarbazepine rather than dihydroxyoxcarbazepine. Therefore we conclude that felbamate has no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of oxcarbazepine in humans.
15336365	A simplified analytical method for a phenotyping cocktail of major CYP450 biotransformation routes.	An efficient, fast and reliable analytical method was developed for the simultaneous evaluation of the activities of five major human drug metabolising cytochrome P450 (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4) with a cocktail approach including five probe substances, namely caffeine, flurbiprofen, omeprazole, dextromethorphan and midazolam. All substances were administered simultaneously and a single plasma sample was obtained 2h after the administration. Plasma samples were handled by liquid-liquid extraction and analysed by gradient high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled to UV and fluorescence detectors. The chromatographic separation was achieved using a Discovery semi-micro HS C18 HPLC column (5 microm particle size, 150 mm x 2.1 mm i.d.) protected by a guard column (5 microm particle size, 20 mm x 2.1 mm i.d.) The mobile phase was constituted of a methanol, acetonitrile and 20mM ammonium acetate (pH 4.5) with 0.1% triethylamine mixture and was delivered at a flow rate of 0.3 mL min(-1). All substances were separated simultaneously in a single run lasting less than 22 min. The HPLC method was formally validated and showed good performances in terms of linearity, sensitivity, precision and accuracy. Finally, the method was found suitable for the screening of these compounds in plasma samples.
21602311	A single dose mass balance study of the Hedgehog pathway inhibitor vismodegib (GDC-0449) in humans using accelerator mass spectrometry.	Vismodegib (GDC-0449), a small-molecule Hedgehog pathway inhibitor, was well tolerated in patients with solid tumors and showed promising efficacy in advanced basal cell carcinoma in a Phase I trial. The purpose of the study presented here was to determine routes of elimination and the extent of vismodegib metabolism, including assessment and identification of metabolites in plasma, urine, and feces. Six healthy female subjects of nonchildbearing potential were enrolled; each received a single 30-ml oral suspension containing 150 mg of vismodegib with 6.5 g of [(14)C]vismodegib to yield a radioactivity dose of approximately 37 kBq (1000 nCi). Plasma, urine, and feces samples were collected over 56 days to permit sample collection for up to 5 elimination half-lives. Nonradioactive vismodegib was measured in plasma using liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometry, and total radioactivity in plasma, urine, and feces was measured using accelerator mass spectrometry. Vismodegib was slowly eliminated by a combination of metabolism and excretion of parent drug, most of which was recovered in feces. The estimated excretion of the administered dose was 86.6% on average, with 82.2 and 4.43% recovered in feces and urine, respectively. Vismodegib was predominant in plasma, with concentrations representing >98% of the total circulating drug-related components. Metabolic pathways of vismodegib in humans included oxidation, glucuronidation, and uncommon pyridine ring cleavage. We conclude that vismodegib and any associated metabolic products are mainly eliminated through feces after oral administration in healthy volunteers.
16484134	Variability of albumin adducts of 1,4-benzoquinone, a toxic metabolite of benzene, in human volunteers.	A putative haematotoxic and leukaemogenic metabolite of benzene, 1,4-benzoquinone (1,4-BQ), reacts rapidly with macromolecules. The authors previously characterized levels of the albumin (Alb) adduct (1,4-BQ-Alb) of this reactive species in populations of workers exposed to benzene. Since high levels of 1,4-BQ-Alb were also measured in unexposed workers from those investigations, the current study was initiated to determine potential sources of 1,4-BQ in the general population. A single blood sample was collected from 191 healthy subjects from the Research Triangle area, NC, USA, to determine the baseline 1,4-BQ-Alb levels and contributing sources. The median 1,4-BQ-Alb at baseline was 550?pmol?g(-1) Alb (interquartile range 435-814?pmol?g(-1)). A second blood sample was collected approximately 3 months later from a subgroup of 33 subjects to estimate the within- and between-person variation in 1,4-BQ-Alb. Standardized questionnaires were administered to collect information about demographic, dietary and lifestyle factors. Multiple linear regression models identified several significant contributors to 1,4-BQ-Alb levels, including gender, body mass index (BMI), the gender-BMI interaction, automobile refuelling, smoking status, and consumption of fruit and the artificial sweetener, aspartame. The authors predicted that these background levels of 1,4-BQ-Alb were equivalent to occupational exposures between 1 and 3 parts per million of benzene. Mixed effects linear models indicated that the random variation in adduct levels was about equally divided between and within subjects. The observations indicate that levels of 1,4-BQ-Alb cover a wide range in the general population, and they support the hypotheses that demographic, diet and lifestyle factors are contributing sources.
11868799	Relative lung and total systemic bioavailability following inhalation from a metered dose inhaler compared with a metered dose inhaler attached to a large volume plastic spacer and a jet nebuliser.	To compare the lung and systemic delivery of salbutamol following inhalation from a metered dose inhaler (MDI), a MDI attached to a spacer (MDI+SP) and a nebuliser (NEB) using a urinary pharmacokinetic method. Twelve healthy subjects each provided urine samples at 0, 30 min and pooled up to 24 h after the start of 5 x 100 microg salbutamol inhaled from MDI and MDI + SP and after 2.5 mg was delivered by NEB. Following nebulisation, the amount of salbutamol trapped on an exhalation filter together with that remaining in the apparatus was determined. The amount left in the spacer and that leaving the MDI mouthpiece was also determined. Thus, for all the methods, the amount available for inhalation from each study dose was determined. The mean (+/- SD) 30-min urinary excretion amounts of salbutamol for MDI, MDI+SP and NEB were 12.6+/-3.5, 27.1+/-6.0 and 16.1+/-4.6 microg, respectively. The mean ratios (90% confidence intervals) for MDI+SP compared with MDI and NEB were 230.2 (186.7, 273.8) and 183.0 (146.4, 219.7) (both P values<0.001), respectively, while that between MDI and NEB was 134 (110.4, 159.1) (P < 0.05). The mean (+/-SD) 24-h urinary excretion values for salbutamol and its metabolite were 287.0+/-46.5, 198.1+/-34.7 and 253.4+/-138.3 microg, respectively. Following inhalation a mean of 202.9+/-51.5 microg was left in the spacer. Similarly, after nebulisation 1387.7+/-88.9 microg was left in the nebuliser chamber, 26.3+/-8.0 microg in the mouthpiece and 553.8+/-68.5 microg exhaled. The mean emitted dose from the MDI was 88.4+/-6.1 microg per actuation. When normalised for the amounts available for inhalation, the mean amounts of salbutamol excreted in the urine during the first 30 min were 2.86+/-0.78, 9.15+/-1.69 and 3.06+/-0.70% following MDI, MDI + SP and NEB, respectively. Five 100-microg doses inhaled from a metered dose inhaler attached to a spacer delivered more to the lungs and less to the systemic circulation than either the same doses from a metered dose inhaler used alone or five times the dose given via a jet nebuliser. Spacers should be routinely used instead of nebulisers to manage patients unless they are short of breath.
20307632	Direct toxicity effects of sulfo-conjugated troglitazone on human hepatocytes.	Troglitazone (TGZ), an orally active hypoglycemic agent, was found to be associated with severe drug-induced liver failure and was withdrawn from the market in 2000. Although the exact mechanism is not clear, it has been postulated that the formation of its major sulfo-conjugated metabolite (TGZS) plays an important role in its toxicity. TGZS inhibits bile salt export pump (BSEP) that causes accumulation of bile salts in liver. High concentration of bile salts causes cell death and mitochondrial dysfunction via detergent properties. One question arises whether TGZS has direct toxicity effect on human liver cells in addition to BSEP inhibition. In this study, both TGZ and chemically synthesized TGZS were incubated with normal human hepatocytes (THLE-2 cells) for measuring their cytotoxicity in vitro using the MTT assay. Glutathione (GSH) and protein carbonyl (PC) assays were further performed to measure the oxidative stress generated by these two compounds during incubation with THLE-2 cells. The results from this study indicated that TGZS (EC(50)=21.74+/-5.38 microM) was more toxic than TGZ (EC(50)=41.12+/-4.3 microM) in THLE-2 cells. The GSH and PC data further confirmed that TGZS produced greater oxidative stress in THLE-2 cells as compared to TGZ. In conclusion, our study demonstrated for the first time that TGZS has direct toxicity effect on human liver cells and may be partially responsible for the hepatotoxicity of TGZ.
19833844	Comparative biotransformation of pyrazinone-containing corticotropin-releasing factor receptor-1 antagonists: minimizing the reactive metabolite formation.	(S)-5-Chloro-1-(1-cyclopropylethyl)-3-(2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenylamino)pyrazin-2(1H)-one (BMS-665053), a pyrazinone-containing compound, is a potent and selective antagonist of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor-1 (CRF-R1) that showed efficacy in the defensive withdrawal model for anxiety in rats, suggesting its use as a potential treatment for anxiety and depression. In vitro metabolism studies of BMS-665053 in rat and human liver microsomes revealed cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation of the pyrazinone moiety, followed by ring opening, as the primary metabolic pathway. Detection of a series of GSH adducts in trapping experiments suggested the formation of a reactive intermediate, probably as a result of epoxidation of the pyrazinone moiety. In addition, BMS-665053 (20 mg/kg i.v.) underwent extensive metabolism in bile duct-cannulated (BDC) rats. The major drug-related materials in rat plasma were the pyrazinone oxidation products. In rat bile and urine (0-7 h), only a trace amount of the parent drug was recovered, whereas significant levels of the pyrazinone epoxide-derived metabolites and GSH-related conjugates were detected. Further evidence suggested that GSH-related conjugates also formed at the dichloroarylamine moiety possibly via an epoxide or a quinone imine intermediate. Other major metabolites in BDC rat bile and urine included glucuronide conjugates. To reduce potential liability due to metabolic activation of BMS-665053, a number of pyrazinone analogs with different substituents were synthesized and investigated for reactive metabolite formation, leading to the discovery of a CRF-R1 antagonist with diminished in vitro metabolic activation.
22106961	Effect of voriconazole and other azole antifungal agents on CYP3A activity and metabolism of tacrolimus in human liver microsomes.	Azole antifungal agents are known to inhibit cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) enzymes. Limited information is available regarding the effect of voriconazole on CYP3A activity. We examined the effect of voriconazole on CYP3A activity in human liver microsomes as measured by the formation of 6-hydroxytestosterone from testosterone. We also evaluated the interaction between voriconazole and tacrolimus, an immunosuppressive drug, using human liver microsomes. The effect of voriconazole on CYP3A activity and tacrolimus metabolism was compared to that of other azole antifungal agents. CYP3A4 activity and the metabolism of tacrolimus were measured in the absence and in the presence of various concentrations of voriconazole (0-1.43 mM), fluconazole (0-1.63 mM), itraconazole (0-14 M) and ketoconazole (0-0.19 M). At a concentration of 21.2  15.4 M and 29.8  12.3 M, voriconazole inhibited the formation of 6-hydroxytestosterone from testosterone and the metabolism of tacrolimus by 50%, respectively. The rank order of inhibition of 6-hydroxytestosterone formation from testosterone and the metabolism of tacrolimus, is ketoconazole > itraconazole > voriconazole > fluconazole. Our observations suggest that voriconazole at clinically relevant concentrations will inhibit the hepatic metabolism of tacrolimus and increase the concentration of tacrolimus more than two-fold. Close monitoring of the blood concentrations and adjustment in the dose of tacrolimus are warranted when transplant patients receiving tacrolimus are treated with voriconazole.
1788987	Investigations on the metabolic pathways of cyclosporine: I. Excretion of cyclosporine and its metabolites in human bile--isolation of 12 new cyclosporine metabolites.	1. Cyclosporine metabolites of known and unknown structures were isolated, by semi-preparative h.p.l.c., from human bile from the T-tube of liver-grafted patients, who received cyclosporine treatment. Their structures were elucidated by FAB mass spectrometry and 1H-n.m.r. spectroscopy. 2. Twelve of the cyclosporine metabolites, with known chemical structures, were isolated and identified using authentic standard material. 3. Four isolated fractions contained tri-hydroxylated metabolites; two fractions contained di-hydroxylated, demethylated metabolites; one fraction contained a tri-hydroxylated, demethylated metabolite; and one fraction a mono-hydroxylated, demethylated metabolite. The exact metabolism sites were partially defined. 4. Two carboxylated cyclosporine metabolites, of which one was hydroxylated in an unknown position, were isolated. 5. One new metabolite proved to be a glucuronylated phase II metabolite. Deglucuronylation of this metabolite by beta-glururonidase yielded metabolite AM1c. The proposed structure was AM1c-Glc; is a proposed extension of the Hawk's Cay nomenclature of the cyclosporine metabolites for glucuronylated metabolites. 6. One of the unknown metabolites was hydroxylated in two positions of amino acid 1. The proposed nomenclature was 'AM11d', where '1d' indicates hydroxylation at the delta C of amino acid 1. 7. A metabolite with an aldehyde functional group at amino acid 1, which had two isomeric forms, was isolated. I.r.-spectroscopy indicated that isomerism may be caused by conjugation of the aldehyde group with the double bond between C6 and C7 of amino acid 1.
22945461	Genome-wide association study reveals a complex genetic architecture underpinning-induced CYP3A4 enzyme activity.	Atypical cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) enzyme activity-induced and inhibited-is thought to be the driver of numerous poor or adverse therapeutic responses to up to 50% of all commonly prescribed drugs. We carried out a genome-wide association study to identify common genetic variants associated with variation in induced CYP3A4 activity. A total of 310 twins were included in this study. Each participant had already completed a 14days course of St John's Wort to induce CYP3A4, which was quantified through the metabolic ratio of exogenous 3-hydroxyquinine to quinine. We failed to detect any genome-wide significant associations (P<110(-8)) with variation in induced CYP3A4 activity although several genomic regions were highlighted which may play minor roles. We report the first GWAS of variation in induced CYP3A4 activity and our preliminary results indicate a complex genetic architecture underpinning induced CYP3A4 enzyme activity.
11504277	A comparative multidose pharmacokinetic study of buspirone extended-release tablets with a reference immediate-release product.	Buspirone is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,717,634 as a pharmaceutically active compound that has been found to be effective for the treatment of anxiety disorders and depression. In this randomized, two-treatment, two-period, multidose crossover study, the pharmacokinetics of a once-daily extended-release (ER)formulation of buspirone was compared with that of an immediate-release (IR) formulation of commercially available buspirone. A total of 30 mg of the ER formulation was administered to 36 healthy volunteers once daily for 7 days, and 15 mg of the IR formulation was administered twice daily for 7 days. Pharmacokinetic profiles of buspirone and its metabolite, 1-pyrimidinylpiperazine (1-PP), were obtained at steady state. The bioavailability of buspirone from the ER formulation was more than three times higher than that from the IR formulation at steady state, and that of 1-PP was about 25% less. The mean steady-state Cmax of buspirone from the ER formulation was 46% higher than that from the IR formulation (p < 0.05), and that for 1-PP was lower by 29% (p < 0.05). The mean apparent half-life of buspirone from the ER formulation (9.04 hours) was considerably longer than that observed for the IR formulation (3.06 hours). The median 1-PP/buspirone AUC ratio was much higher for the IR formulation at steady state (24.4) than for the ER formulation (6.44). There were no significant differences in average pharmacokinetic metrics observed in men and women. Based on these observations of the potential benefits of once-daily dosing with the ER product in terms of prolonged buspirone plasma concentrations, a significant increase in the ratio of buspirone to 1-PP concentration with a lower intersubject variation could be achieved that should provide an improvement in the desired therapeutic effects of buspirone.
8835658	Comparative evaluation of five immunoassays for the analysis of alprazolam and triazolam metabolites in urine: effect of lowering the screening and GC-MS cut-off values.	This study included evaluation of five commercially available immunoassays for the detection of alprazolam and triazolam metabolites in urine following single oral doses of these drugs. The products investigated were the EMIT d.a.u. assay, EMIT II assay, Abbott TDx (FPIA) assay, Bio Site TRIAGE device, and the Boehringer Mannheim/Microgenics CEDIA assay for urinary benzodiazepines. Urine specimens were also analyzed quantitatively by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Percent cross-reactivity was assessed by analysis of drug free urine containing drug standards at concentrations ranging from 100 to 10,000 ng/mL. The drug standards analyzed were alpha-OH-alprazolam, alpha-OH-triazolam, and alpha-OH-alprazolam glucuronide. The effect of lowering the screening cut-off value to 100 ng/mL, lowering the confirmation cut-off value to 50 and 25 ng/mL and the use of beta-glucuronidase hydrolysis prior to analysis was also studied. Lowering the screening cut-off value and using enzymatic hydrolysis prior to screening increased the positive detection rate for benzodiazepines with the EMIT d.a.u. assay and fluorescence polarization immunoassay (FPIA). The TRIAGE device gave the lowest percent cross-reactivity in the analysis of the drug standards and gave negative results in all urine specimens analyzed following ingestion of alprazolam and triazolam.
12191880	Polymorphism of glutathione S-transferases and susceptibility to acrylonitrile and dimethylsulfate in cases of intoxication.	In this paper, the difficulties of genetic screening of occupationally exposed subjects for the evaluation of retrospective, and prospective, health risk assessments is illustrated with reference to glutathione S-transferase (GST) function. Individual differences in the magnitude and half-life of adduct levels, derived from background and occupational exposure, are observed largely independently of genetically determined conjugator status. During detoxification, GSTs play a critical role in providing protection against electrophiles and products of oxidative stress. GSTs are a superfamily of enzymes that may have broad and overlapping substrate specificities. Deficiencies of GST isoenzymes may be compensated by the presence of other isoforms and by the use of alternative metabolic pathways. This may be one reason for the abundance of controversial data on GST polymorphisms and adverse health effects.
15531721	Androgen generation in adipose tissue in women with simple obesity--a site-specific role for 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 5.	Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have high circulating androgens, thought to originate from ovaries and adrenals, and frequently suffer from the metabolic syndrome including obesity. However, serum androgens are positively associated with body mass index (BMI) not only in PCOS, but also in simple obesity, suggesting androgen synthesis within adipose tissue. Thus we investigated androgen generation in human adipose tissue, including expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) isozymes, important regulators of sex steroid metabolism. Paired omental and subcutaneous fat biopsies were obtained from 27 healthy women undergoing elective abdominal surgery (age range 30-50 years; BMI 19.7-39.2 kg/m(2)). Enzymatic activity assays in preadipocyte proliferation cultures revealed effcient conversion of androstenedione to testosterone in both subcutaneous and omental fat. RT-PCR of whole fat and preadipocytes of subcutaneous and omental origin showed expression of 17beta-HSD types 4 and 5, but no relevant expression of 17beta-HSD types 1, 2, or 3. Microarray analysis confirmed this expression pattern (17beta-HSD5>17beta-HSD4) and suggested a higher expression of 17beta-HSD5 in subcutaneous fat. Accordingly, quantitative real-time RT-PCR showed significantly higher expression of 17beta-HSD5 in subcutaneous compared with omental fat (P<0.05). 17beta-HSD5 expression in subcutaneous, but not omental, whole fat correlated significantly with BMI (r=0.51, P<0.05). In keeping with these findings, 17beta-HSD5 expression in subcutaneous fat biopsies from six women taking part in a weight loss study decreased significantly with weight loss (P<0.05). A role for 17beta-HSD5 in adipocyte differentiation was further supported by the observed increase in 17beta-HSD5 expression upon differentiation of stromal preadipocytes to mature adipocytes (n=5; P<0.005), which again was higher in cells of subcutaneous origin. Functional activity of 17beta-HSD5 also significantly increased with differentiation, revealing a net gain in androgen activation (androstenedione to testosterone) in subcutaneous cultures, contrasting with a net gain in androgen inactivation (testosterone to androstenedione) in omental cultures. Thus, human adipose tissue is capable of active androgen synthesis catalysed by 17beta-HSD5, and increased expression in obesity may contribute to circulating androgen excess.
11133003	CYP3A is responsible for N-dealkylation of haloperidol and bromperidol and oxidation of their reduced forms by human liver microsomes.	We studied the biotransformation of haloperidol, bromperidol and their reduced forms by human liver microsomes. Nifedipine oxidation (CYP3A) activity correlated significantly with N-dealkylation rates of haloperidol and bromperidol and oxidation rates of their reduced forms, while neither ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (CYP1A2) activity nor dextromethorphan O-deethylation (CYP2D6) activity did. In chemical and immunoinhibition studies, only troleandomycin and anti-CYP3A4 serum inhibited both formation rates of 4-fluorobenzoylpropionic acid, a metabolite of haloperidol and bromperidol, and back oxidation rates. Among 10 recombinant isoforms examined, only CYP3A4 showed catalytic activity. The Vmax and Km values of N-dealkylation of bromperidol and reoxidation of reduced bromperidol were similar to those of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol, respectively. The present study indicates that CYP3A plays a major role in N-dealkylation of and oxidation back to bromperidol as well as haloperidol and suggests that modification of in vivo CYP3A activity by inhibition or induction may affect the pharmacokinetics and therapeutic effects of haloperidol and bromperidol.
21856291	Human arylacetamide deacetylase is responsible for deacetylation of rifamycins: rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine.	Rifamycins such as rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine are used for the treatment of tuberculosis and induce various drug-metabolizing enzymes. Rifamycins have been reported to be mainly deacetylated by esterase(s) expressed in human liver microsomes (HLM) to 25-deacetylrifamycins, but the responsible enzyme remained to be determined. In this study, we found that recombinant human arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC) could efficiently deacetylate rifamycins, whereas human carboxylesterases, which are enzymes responsible for the hydrolysis of many prodrugs, showed no activity. The involvement of AADAC in the deacetylation of rifamycins in HLM was verified by the similarities of the K(m) and K(i) values and the inhibitory characteristics between recombinant AADAC and HLM. Rifamycins exhibited potent cytotoxicity to HepG2 cells, but their 25-deacetylated metabolites did not. Luciferase assay using a reporter plasmid containing CYP3A4 direct repeat 3 and everted repeat 6 motifs revealed that 25-deacetylrifamycins have lesser potency to transactivate CYP3A4 compared with the parent drugs. Supporting these results, HepG2 cells infected with a recombinant adenovirus expressing human AADAC showed low cytotoxicity and induction potency of CYP3A4 by rifamycins. In addition, CYP3A4 induction in human hepatocytes by rifamycins was increased by transfecting siRNA for human AADAC. Thus, we found that human AADAC was the enzyme responsible for the deacetylation of rifamycins and would affect the induction rate of drug-metabolizing enzymes by rifamycins and their induced hepatotoxicity.
21843514	Valproic acid utilizes the isoleucine breakdown pathway for its complete -oxidation.	Valproic acid (VPA) is a simple branched medium-chain fatty acid with expanding therapeutic applications beyond its prime anticonvulsant properties. (1) To resolve the underlying basis for the interference of valproate with the isoleucine degradative pathway and (2) to shed new light on the enzymology of the -oxidation pathway of valproate. Urine organic acids were analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. In vitro studies were performed with heterologously expressed human 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (MHBD) and fibroblasts from controls and a patient with MHBD deficiency using 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA and 3-hydroxyvalproyl-CoA as substrates. The respective enzymatic activities were measured using optimized HPLC procedures. Short-chain enoyl-CoA hydratase (ECHS1) immunoprecipitation in a human liver homogenate was performed and hydratase activity was measured in the supernatants by HPLC, using crotonyl-CoA and (2(E))-valproyl-CoA as substrates. Patients on valproate therapy had a moderately increased urinary excretion of the isoleucine metabolite 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid. MHBD was found to convert 3-hydroxyvalproyl-CoA into 3-ketovalproyl-CoA. MHBD activity in control fibroblasts was comparable using both 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA and 3-hydroxyvalproyl-CoA as substrates. In fibroblasts of a patient with MHBD deficiency, there was no detectable MHBD activity when 3-hydroxyvalproyl-CoA was used as substrate. Samples with immunoprecipitated crotonase had no detectable hydratase activity using both crotonyl-CoA and (2(E))-valproyl-CoA as substrates. This work demonstrates for the first time, that MHBD is the unique enzyme responsible for the dehydrogenation of 3-hydroxyvalproyl-CoA. Furthermore, we show that crotonase is the major, if not the single hydratase involved in VPA -oxidation, next to its role in isoleucine catabolism.
19125274	Self-collected urine sampling to study the kinetics of urinary toluene (and o-cresol) and define the best sampling time for biomonitoring.	To study the excretion kinetics of urinary toluene, TOL-U, and o-cresol, o-C, following occupational exposure to toluene in order to define the best time for sample collection, to apply a non-invasive approach based on self-collected urine sampling. Five rotogravure printing workers exposed to uncontrolled levels of toluene collected spot urine samples over three consecutive working days and the following day of rest. In each sample TOL-U and o-C were measured and kinetics of excretion evaluated. Toluene exposure ranged from 48.3 to 75.3 mg/m(3); TOL-U and o-C ranged from 1.4 to 34.6 microg/L and from 0.013 to 1.012 mg/L. A time course trend was obtained: TOL-U and o-C increased during the shift and peaked at the end of exposure and up to 2 h later, respectively; afterwards they rapidly decreased following apparent first order kinetics. Considering TOL-U, the elimination half-life for the first fast phase was 79 (+/-35 standard error) min, and for the second slow phase was 1,320 (+/-1,162) min. For o-C the elimination half-life for the first fast phase was 231 (+/-48) min. Considering a toluene uptake of 86%, TOL-U and o-C excreted in urine were about 0.0067 and 0.18% of the up taken. Our results support the use of end shift TOL-U as a short term biomarker of occupational exposure to toluene and show the feasibility of self-collected urine sampling to investigate the elimination kinetics of industrial toxics in humans.
17510248	Absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination of the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren in healthy volunteers.	Aliskiren (2(S),4(S),5(S),7(S)-N-(2-carbamoyl-2-methylpropyl)-5-amino-4-hydroxy-2,7-diisopropyl-8-[4-methoxy-3-(3-methoxypropoxy)phenyl]-octanamid hemifumarate) is the first in a new class of orally active, nonpeptide direct renin inhibitors developed for the treatment of hypertension. The absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of [(14)C]aliskiren were investigated in four healthy male subjects after administration of a single 300-mg oral dose in an aqueous solution. Plasma radioactivity and aliskiren concentration measurements and complete urine and feces collections were made for 168 h postdose. Peak plasma levels of aliskiren (C(max)) were achieved between 2 and 5 h postdose. Unchanged aliskiren represented the principal circulating species in plasma, accounting for 81% of total plasma radioactivity (AUC(0-infinity)), and indicating very low exposure to metabolites. Terminal half-lives for radioactivity and aliskiren in plasma were 49 h and 44 h, respectively. Dose recovery over 168 h was nearly complete (91.5% of dose); excretion occurred almost completely via the fecal route (90.9%), with only 0.6% recovered in the urine. Unabsorbed drug accounted for a large dose proportion recovered in feces in unchanged form. Based on results from this and from previous studies, the absorbed fraction of aliskiren can be estimated to approximately 5% of dose. The absorbed dose was partly eliminated unchanged via the hepatobiliary route. Oxidized metabolites in excreta accounted for at least 1.3% of the radioactive dose. The major metabolic pathways for aliskiren were O-demethylation at the phenyl-propoxy side chain or 3-methoxy-propoxy group, with further oxidation to the carboxylic acid derivative.
16172183	Coadministration of lansoprazole and naproxen does not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of methotrexate in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Drugs prescribed for rheumatoid arthritis are often associated with gastrointestinal toxicity, and proton pump inhibitors may be coadministered for gastroprotection. In this open-label study, the effect of lansoprazole 30 mg qd and naproxen 500 mg bid on the pharmacokinetic profile of methotrexate was investigated. Twenty-seven adult rheumatoid arthritis patients on stable oral methotrexate doses (7.5-15 mg/week) for a minimum of 3 months were enrolled. Methotrexate pharmacokinetics were assessed on days -1 (methotrexate alone) and 7 (methotrexate with lansoprazole and naproxen). Pharmacokinetics of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate were not altered by coadministration of methotrexate with lansoprazole and naproxen; point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the peak plasma concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate were within the 0.80 to 1.25 boundaries. Therefore, coadministration of naproxen and lansoprazole for 7 days does not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of low doses of methotrexate.
17267301	Simultaneous determination of 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid and its active metabolites in human plasma by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for pharmacokinetic studies.	1,5-Dicaffeoylquinic acid (1,5-DCQA), a potent HIV-1 integrase inhibitor, is undergoing an evaluation as a promising novel HIV therapeutic agent. Here, we report a simple, rapid and robust LC-MS/MS method for simultaneous determination of 1,5-DCQA and its two active metabolites, 1-caffeoyl-5-feruoylquinic acid (1,5-CFQA) and 1,5-O-diferuoylquinic acid (1,5-DFQA) in human plasma. The quantitation of the target compounds was determined by selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mode using electrospray ionization (ESI). Good linearity was obtained in the 3-500 ng/ml range for each analyte and the analytical method was validated in terms of specificity, precision, accuracy, recovery, stability and matrix effect. These assays gave R.S.D.% values for precision always lower than 13.8% and R.E.% values for accuracy between -8.9 and 0.9%. In addition, the specificity, extraction recovery, stability and matrix effect were satisfactory too. Using the measured plasma concentrations of 1,5-DCQA and its active metabolites in five healthy volunteers, pharmacokinetic profiles of 1,5-DCQA and its active metabolites were evaluated, which supported the clinical pharmacokinetic studies successfully. Due to its high sensitivity, specificity and simplicity, the method could be used for pharmacokinetic studies of both 1,5-DCQA and its active metabolite, and for routine monitoring of their levels in human plasma.
9070354	Cytochrome P450-dependent metabolism of trichloroethylene: interindividual differences in humans.	Trichloroethylene (TRI) is an industrial solvent with a history of use in anesthesia, and is a common groundwater contaminant. Cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent metabolism of TRI produces chloral hydrate (CH) and is rate limiting in the ultimate production of trichloro- and/or dichloroacetic acid from TRI. Exposure of rodents to TRI results in lung and liver tumors (mice) and nephrotoxicity (rats). The toxicity is exacerbated by pretreatment of mice with CYP inducers. We report significant variability in TRI metabolism in a sample of 23 human hepatic microsomal samples and demonstrate the dependence of TRI metabolism on CYP2E1. K(m) values in this limited sample population are not normally distributed. We have correlated microsomal CH formation with the activity toward routine CYP2E1 substrates and with immunologically detectable CYP2E1 protein. Further, TRI metabolism in microsomes from lymphoblastoid cell lines expressing CYP2E1, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, or CYP3A4 indicated minimal involvement of the latter forms, with CYP2E1 catalyzing more than 60% of total microsomal TRI metabolism. These results indicate that humans are not uniform in their capacity for CYP-dependent metabolism of TRI and increased CYP2E1 activity may increase susceptibility to TRI-induced toxicity in the human.
21842514	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the quantitative determination of diastereomers of a phosphoramidate nucleotide prodrug (PSI-7851) in human plasma.	A rapid and stereospecific method using high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) for the separation and determination of PSI-7851 diastereomers in human KEDTA plasma has been developed. The analytical method involves direct protein precipitation with acetonitrile, followed by separation of the diastereomers on a Luna C column, positive mode electrospray ionization and selected reaction monitoring mode mass spectrometry detection. The mobile phase composition and pH were investigated for the resolution of the two diastereomers of PSI-7851. The optimized method showed good resolution (R(s) =4.8) within short analysis time (approximately 8min). The assay range was 5-2500ng/mL for both diastereomers using a 1/x weighted linear regression analysis for standard curve fitting. Replicate sample analysis indicated that intra- and inter-day accuracy and precision were within 15.0%. The recovery of diastereomers from human plasma was greater than 85% and no significant matrix effect was observed. The method was demonstrated to be sensitive, selective and robust, and was successfully used to support clinical studies.
12920173	Concurrent induction and mechanism-based inactivation of CYP3A4 by an L-valinamide derivative.	DPC 681 (N-[(3-fluorophenyl)methyl]glycyl-N-[3-[((3-aminophenyl) sulfonyl)-2-(aminophenyl)amino]-(1S,2S)-2-hydroxy-1-(phenyl-methyl)propyl]-3-methyl-l-valinamide) is a potent peptide-like human immunodeficiency virus protease inhibitor that was evaluated in phase I clinical trials. In primary cultures of hepatocytes, DPC 681 significantly induced the testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity of rat CYP3A, but not human CYP3A4. Western blot analysis, however, demonstrated a 3-fold increase in expression of CYP3A4 protein by 20 microM DPC 681 in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Subsequent studies showed that DPC 681 was a potent inhibitor of human CYP3A4 (IC50 = 0.039 microM) and rat CYP3A (IC50 = 1.62 microM). Moreover, DPC 681 was a mechanism-based inactivator of CYP3A4 with KI and kinact of 0.24 microM and 0.22 min-1, respectively. Thus, DPC 681 is both a potent inhibitor and a strong inducer of CYP3A4. Induction of CYP3A4 by DPC 681 was masked in vitro by autoinactivation, similar to the protease inhibitor ritonavir. In pharmacokinetic studies in healthy human volunteers and rats, DPC 681 was found to highly autoinduce its metabolism. Human volunteers dosed with DPC 681 at 600 mg twice daily for 14 days had a 75% decrease in the mean area under the concentration-time curve and a more than 3-fold increase in apparent clearance as compared with that on day 1. Because the primary route of DPC 681 clearance is via CYP3A metabolism, the increased clearance observed in clinical studies is due to induction of human CYP3A4 expression.
2838089	Synthesis and metabolism of leukotrienes by human endothelial cells: influence on prostacyclin release.	The synthesis and metabolism of leukotrienes (LTs) by endothelial cells was investigated using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Cells were incubated with [14C]arachidonic acid. LTA4 or [3H]LTA4 and stimulated with ionophore A23187. The cells did not synthesize leukotrienes from [14C]arachidonic acid. LTA4 and [3H]LTA4 were converted to LTC4, LTD4, LTE4 and 5,12-diHETE. Endothelial cells metabolized [3H]LTC4 to [3H]LTD4 and [3H]LTE4. The metabolism of [3H]LTC4 was inhibited by L-serine-borate complex, phenobarbital and acivicin in a concentration-related manner, with maximal inhibition occurring at a concentration of 0.1 M, 0.01 M and 0.01 M, respectively. LTC4, LTB4 and LTD4 stimulated the synthesis of prostacyclin, measured by radioimmunoassays as 6-keto-PGF1 alpha. The stimulation by LTC4 was greater than that by LTD4 or LTB4. LTE4, 14,15-LTC4 and 14,15-LTD4 failed to stimulate the synthesis of prostacyclin. LTD4 and LTB4 also stimulated the release of PGE2, whereas LTC4 did not. Serine-borate and phenobarbital inhibited LTC4-stimulated synthesis of prostacyclin in a concentration-related manner. They also inhibited the release of prostacyclin by histamine, A23187 and arachidonic acid. Acivicin had no effect on the release of prostacyclin by LTC4, histamine or A23187. Furthermore, FPL-55712, an LT receptor antagonist, inhibited LTC4-stimulated prostacyclin synthesis but had no effect on histamine-stimulated release of prostacyclin or PGE2. Indomethacin inhibited both LTC4- and histamine-stimulated release. The results show that (a) endothelial cells metabolize LTA4, LTC4 and LTD4 but do not synthesize LTs from arachidonic acid; (b) LTC4 act directly at the leukotriene receptor to stimulation prostacyclin synthesis; (c) the presence of the glutathione moiety at the C-6 position of the eicosatetraenoic acid skeleton is necessary for leukotriene stimulation of prostacyclin release; and (d) the metabolism of LTC4 to LTD4 and LTE4 does not appear to alter the ability of LTC4 to stimulate the synthesis of PGI2.
19157735	Oxethazaine as the source of mephentermine and phentermine in athlete's urine.	The urine specimens of numerous athletes were found to be positive for mephentermine both in-competition and out-of-competition in Taiwan. The donor of one specimen claimed she had only taken Mucaine (contains oxethazaine) for relieving symptomatic peptic ulcer and gastritis. Oxethazaine is not included in the prohibited list of the World Anti-Doping Agency; however, its metabolized compounds, mephentermine and phentermine, are included in that list. This study applied LC-MS-MS to analyze the excretions of three volunteers who ingested oxethazaine and presented positive results for mephentermine and/or phentermine. Thus, oxethazaine is the source of mephentermine and phentermine. Moreover, the results showed that 48 brands of gastric medicines containing oxethazaine were legally imported or locally manufactured in Taiwan, information which could be useful for limiting the misuse of oxethazaine by athletes. The data suggested that the sports associations should warn athletes about the risks of taking oxethazaine.
16959463	Development and validation of a high performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of oxcarbazepine and its main metabolites in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid and its application to pharmacokinetic study.	An isocratic reversed-phase HPLC-UV procedure for the determination of oxcarbazepine and its main metabolites 10-hydroxy-10,11-dihydrocarbamazepine and 10,11-dihydroxy-trans-10,11-dihydrocarbamazepine in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid has been developed and validated. After addition of bromazepam as internal standard, the analytes were isolated from plasma and cerebrospinal fluid by liquid-liquid extraction. Separation was achieved on a X-TERRA C18 column using a mobile phase composed of 20 mM KH(2)PO(4), acetonitrile, and n-octylamine (76:24:0.05, v/v/v) at 40 degrees C and detected at 237 nm. The described assay was validated in terms of linearity, accuracy, precision, recovery and lower limit of quantification according to the FDA validation guidelines. Calibration curves were linear with a coefficient of variation (r) greater than 0.998. Accuracy ranged from 92.3% to 106.0% and precision was between 2.3% and 8.2%. The method has been applied to plasma and cerebrospinal fluid samples obtained from patients treated with oxcarbazepine, both in monotherapy and adjunctive therapy.
12584157	Identification of trichloroethylene and its metabolites in human seminal fluid of workers exposed to trichloroethylene.	We have investigated the potential of the male reproductive tract to accumulate trichloroethylene (TCE) and its metabolites, including chloral, trichloroethanol (TCOH), trichloroacetic acid (TCA), and dichloroacetic acid (DCA). Human seminal fluid and urine samples from eight mechanics diagnosed with clinical infertility and exposed to TCE occupationally were analyzed. In in vivo experimental studies, TCE and its metabolites were determined in epididymis and testis of mice exposed to TCE (1000 ppm) by inhalation for 1 to 4 weeks. In other studies, incubations of monkey epididymal microsomes were performed in the presence of TCE and NADPH. Our results showed that seminal fluid from all eight subjects contained TCE, chloral, and TCOH. DCA was present in samples from two subjects, and only one contained TCA. TCA and/or TCOH were also identified in urine samples from only two subjects. TCE, chloral, and TCOH were detected in murine epididymis after inhalation exposure with TCE for 1 to 4 weeks. Levels of TCE and chloral were similar throughout the entire exposure period. TCOH levels were similar at 1 and 2 weeks but increased significantly after 4 weeks of TCE exposure. Chloral was identified in microsomal incubations with TCE in monkey epididymis. CYP2E1, a P450 that metabolizes TCE, was localized in human and monkey epididymal epithelium and testicular Leydig cells. These results indicated that TCE is metabolized in the reproductive tract of the mouse and monkey. Furthermore, TCE and its metabolites accumulated in seminal fluid, and suggested associations between production of TCE metabolites, reproductive toxicity, and impaired fertility.
23584048	Analytical power of LLE-HPLC-PDA-MS/MS in drug metabolism studies: identification of new nabumetone metabolites.	Nabumetone is a non-acidic, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory prodrug. Following oral administration, the prodrug is converted in the liver to 6-methoxy-2-naphthylacetic acid (6-MNA), which was found to be the principal metabolite responsible for the NSAID effect. The pathway of nabumetone transformation to 6-MNA has not been clarified, with no intermediates between nabumetone and 6-MNA having been identified to date. In this study, a new, as yet unreported phase I metabolite was discovered within the evaluation of nabumetone metabolism by human and rat liver microsomal fractions. Extracts from the biomatrices were subjected to chiral LLE-HPLC-PDA and achiral LLE-UHPLC-MS/MS analyses to elucidate the chemical structure of this metabolite. UHPLC-MS/MS experiments detected the presence of a structure corresponding to elemental composition C15H16O3, which was tentatively assigned as a hydroxylated nabumetone. Identical nabumetone and HO-nabumetone UV spectra obtained from the PDA detector ruled out the presence of the hydroxy group in the aromatic moiety of nabumetone. Hence, the most likely structure of the new metabolite was 4-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)-3-hydroxybutan-2-one (3-hydroxy nabumetone). To confirm this structure, the standard of this nabumetone metabolite was synthesized, its spectral (UV, CD, NMR, MS/MS) and retention properties on chiral and achiral chromatographic columns were evaluated and compared with those of the authentic nabumetone metabolite. To elucidate the subsequent biotransformation of 3-hydroxy nabumetone, the compound was used as a substrate in incubation with human and rat liver microsomal fraction. A number of 3-hydroxy nabumetone metabolites (products of conjugation with glucuronic acid, O-desmethylation, carbonyl reduction and their combination) were discovered in the extracts from the incubated microsomes using LLE-HPLC-PDA-MS/MS experiments. On the other hand, when 3-hydroxy nabumetone was incubated with isolated rat hepatocytes, 6-MNA was detected as the principal metabolite of 3-hydroxy nabumetone. Hence, 3-hydroxy nabumetone could be the missing link in nabumetone biotransformation to 6-MNA (i.e. nabumetone3-hydroxy nabumetone6-MNA).
8486332	Identification of the human and animal hepatic cytochromes P450 involved in clonazepam metabolism.	This report characterizes the cytochrome P450 isozyme involved in clonazepam metabolism. This study was undertaken using a library of liver microsomal fractions prepared from untreated rabbits or those treated with drugs known to specifically induce various cytochrome P450 isozymes (ie P450 2B4 by phenobarbital, P450 1A1 and P450 1A2 by 3-methylcholanthrene and beta-naphthoflavone, P450 2E1 by acetone and ethyl alcohol, and P450 3A6 by erythromycin). Only microsomes obtained from phenobarbital-treated rabbits exhibited a type II binding spectrum upon addition of clonazepam (Ks(app) = 31.4 +/- 3.8 microM) and significantly metabolized clonazepam to 7-aminoclonazepam. Benzphetamine, which is a known substrate for P450 2B1 was also extensively metabolized by microsomes prepared from phenobarbital treated rabbits. This indicates that the same isozyme (P450 2B subfamily) was involved in the biotransformation of both substrates. Experiments performed on 14 human liver microsomal preparations showed a wide interindividual variability (from 1-4) and a good correlation (r = 0.70) between benzphetamine and clonazepam metabolism. Since P450 3A4 (nf25) was involved in benzphetamine metabolism, clonazepam was probably nitroreduced by the same isozyme. An oligonucleotide specific for the P450 3A4 gene subfamily was synthetized and used for hybridization on total RNA from human liver samples. Two transcripts of 2.2 and 3.0 kb were detected and the level of the 2.2 kb mRNA expression was significantly correlated (r = 0.61) with the intensity of clonazepam nitroreduction by the corresponding microsome batches.
18609447	In vitro metabolism of a novel PPAR gamma agonist, KR-62980, and its stereoisomer, KR-63198, in human liver microsomes and by recombinant cytochrome P450s.	1. KR-62980 and its stereoisomer KR-63198 are novel and selective peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) modulators with activity profiles different from that of rosiglitazone. This study was performed to identify the major metabolic pathways for KR-62980 and KR-63198 in human liver microsomes. 2. Human liver microsomal incubation of KR-62980 and KR-63198 in the presence of a beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-generating system resulted in hydroxy metabolite formation. In addition, the specific cytochrome P450s (CYPs) responsible for KR-62980 and KR-63198 hydroxylation were identified by using a combination of chemical inhibition in human liver microsomes and metabolism by recombinant P450s. It is shown that CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5 are the predominant enzymes in the hydroxylation of KR-62980 and KR-63198. 3. The intrinsic clearance through hydroxylation was consistently and significantly higher for KR-62980 than for KR-63198, indicating metabolic stereoselectivity (CL(int) of 0.012 +/- 0.001 versus 0.004 +/- 0.001 microl min(-1) pmol(-1) P450, respectively). 4. In a drug-drug interaction study, KR-62980 and KR-63198 had no effect on the activities of the P450s tested (IC(50) > 50 microM), suggesting that in clinical interactions between KR-62980 and KR-63198 the P450s tested would not be expected.
15242431	Early bioavailability of paracetamol after oral or intravenous administration.	Paracetamol is a peripherally acting analgesic commonly used in multimodal post-operative pain management to reduce the need for more potent analgesics with their unwanted side-effects. The dose and optimal galenical form for achieving analgesic concentrations is not well defined. The primary aim of this pilot project was to study the early bioavailability for two fixed doses of orally administrated paracetamol and one dose of intravenous propacetamol, all of which were given after minor surgery. Thirty-five patients undergoing day surgery were divided into five groups, seven patients each. Groups received either 1 g of an ordinary paracetamol tablet, 2 g of an ordinary paracetamol tablet, 1 g of a bicarbonate paracetamol tablet, 2 g of a bicarbonate paracetamol tablet or 2 g intravenously of prodrug propacetamol. We studied the plasma concentration of paracetamol during the first 80 min after administration. Within 40 min, intravenous propacetamol gave a median plasma paracetamol concentration of 85 micromol/l (range 65-161) and decreased thereafter. After oral administration, median plasma paracetamol concentration increased with increasing dose and time, but there were huge inter-individual differences at all time points studied. At 80 min after oral paracetamol the median plasma concentrations were 36 and 129 micromol/l for the 1- and 2-g groups, respectively, with an overall range between 0 and 306 micromol/l. Oral administration of paracetamol as part of multimodal pain management immediately post-operatively resulted in a huge and unpredictable variation in plasma concentration compared with the intravenous administration.
2255665	Effects of age and antiepileptic drugs on plasma levels and kinetics of clobazam and N-desmethylclobazam.	The authors monitored the plasma levels of clobazam (CLO) and its principal metabolite, N-desmethylclobazam (NCLO) during chronic treatment of more than 400 epileptic patients receiving different co-medications, such as phenytoin (PH), carbamazepine (CBZ), sodium valproate (VPA) and phenobarbital (PB). This study investigated the influence of age and antiepileptic drugs on plasma levels of CLO and NCLO. Plasma concentrations measured 3 hr after morning administration of CLO varied from 30 to 700 [formula; see text] for CLO, and from 160 to 7000 [formula; see text] for NCLO. Plasma levels of CLO were higher in patients aged 20-30 years. NCLO concentrations increased with age up to 20 years. Coadministered antiepileptic compounds significantly decreased maximal plasma levels of CLO. Moreover, PH and CBZ a significantly increased the plasma levels of NCLO. Results on the influence of CBZ on CLO kinetics were confirmed in a group of ten patients receiving PB and VPA and later PB, VPA and CBZ as CLO associated drugs. The influence of VPA on the pharmacokinetics parameters of CLO was also evaluated in a patient in the latter group.
21138531	Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships of transdermal buprenorphine and fentanyl in experimental human pain models.	Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modelling can be used to characterize the relationship between dose regimen of opioids, plasma concentration and effect of opioids, which in turn can lead to more rational treatment regimens of pain. The aim of this study was to investigate the concentration-effect relationship for transdermal buprenorphine and fentanyl in experimentally induced pain. Twenty-two healthy volunteers were randomized to receive transdermal patches with fentanyl (25 g/hr, 72 hr), buprenorphine (20 g/hr, 144 hr) or placebo. The experimental pain tests were pressure at the tibial bone, cutaneous thermal stimulation, cold pressor test (conditioning stimulus (3  0.3C cold water), nerve growth factor-induced muscle soreness and intradermal capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia. Experiments were carried out at baseline, 24, 48, 72 and 144 hr after application of patches. Time-course of placebo was described first and was afterwards added to the description of the time-courses of buprenorphine and fentanyl. This was either described by zero (no drug effect), linear or E(max) model concentration-effect relationships. Time-dependent changes in pain measures in the placebo arm were described by linear or quadratic functions. The time-course of fentanyl and buprenorphine plasma concentrations was complex but could be represented by cubic spline interpolation in the models. Buprenorphine significantly attenuated bone-associated pain, heat pain, nerve growth factor-induced soreness and cold pressor pain. Fentanyl significantly attenuated cold pressor pain for the administered dose regimens. Although the PK/PD relationship for both drugs could be described with similar models, tissue-differentiated analgesic effects between buprenorphine and fentanyl was shown.
23169608	Metabolism and pharmacokinetics of 3-n-butylphthalide (NBP) in humans: the role of cytochrome P450s and alcohol dehydrogenase in biotransformation.	3-n-Butylphthalide (NBP) is a cardiovascular drug currently used for the treatment of cerebral ischemia. The present study aims to investigate the metabolism, pharmacokinetics, and excretion of NBP in humans and identify the enzymes responsible for the formation of major metabolites. NBP underwent extensive metabolism after an oral administration of 200 mg NBP and 23 metabolites were identified in human plasma and urine. Principal metabolic pathways included hydroxylation on alkyl side chain, particularly at 3-, -1-, and -carbons, and further oxidation and conjugation. Approximately 81.6% of the dose was recovered in urine, mainly as NBP-11-oic acid (M5-2) and glucuronide conjugates of M5-2 and mono-hydroxylated products. 10-Keto-NBP (M2), 3-hydroxy-NBP (M3-1), 10-hydroxy-NBP (M3-2), and M5-2 were the major circulating metabolites, wherein the areas under the curve values were 1.6-, 2.9-, 10.3-, and 4.1-fold higher than that of NBP. Reference standards of these four metabolites were obtained through microbial biotransformation by Cunninghamella blakesleana. In vitro phenotyping studies demonstrated that multiple cytochrome P450 (P450) isoforms, especially CYP3A4, 2E1, and 1A2, were involved in the formation of M3-1, M3-2, and 11-hydroxy-NBP. Using M3-2 and 11-hydroxy-NBP as substrates, human subcellular fractions experiments revealed that P450, alcohol dehydrogenase, and aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyzed the generation of M2 and M5-2. Formation of M5-2 was much faster than that of M2, and M5-2 can undergo -oxidation to yield phthalide-3-acetic acid in rat liver homogenate. Overall, our study demonstrated that NBP was well absorbed and extensively metabolized by multiple enzymes to various metabolites prior to urinary excretion.
12724045	Apparent mechanism-based inhibition of human CYP3A in-vitro by lopinavir.	The influence of the viral protease inhibitor lopinavir on the activity of six human cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes was evaluated in a model system using human liver microsomes. Column chromatography methodology was developed to separate lopinavir from ritonavir starting from the commercially available lopinavir-ritonavir combination dosage form. Lopinavir produced negligible or weak inhibition of human CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19 and 2D6. However, lopinavir was an inhibitor of CYP3A. At 250 microM triazolam (the CYP3A index substrate), the mean (+/- s.e., n = 4) IC50 versus triazolam alpha-hydroxylation (where IC50 is the concentration producing a 50% decrement in reaction velocity) was 7.3 (+/- 0.5) microM. Pre-incubation of lopinavir with microsomes prior to addition of triazolam yielded a significantly lower IC50 of 4.1 (+/- 0.5) microM. This is consistent with mechanism-based inhibition of human CYP3A by lopinavir. Although lopinavir is less potent than ritonavir as an inhibitor of CYP3A, lopinavir is nonetheless likely to contribute to net CYP3A inhibition in-vivo during treatment with the lopinavir-ritonavir combination.
11774289	Removal of acetaldehyde from saliva by a slow-release buccal tablet of L-cysteine.	High alcohol intake is an independent risk factor for upper gastrointestinal (GI)-tract cancers. There is increasing evidence that acetaldehyde, the first metabolite of ethanol, might be responsible for ethanol-associated carcinogenesis. Especially among Asian heavy drinkers with the ALDH2-deficiency gene, i.e., a genetic inability to remove acetaldehyde, the risk of digestive tract cancers is markedly increased. Local acetaldehyde production from ethanol either by oral microbes, mucosal cells or salivary glands is a plausible carcinogenic agent in the saliva. The aim of our study was to examine whether is it possible to bind carcinogenic acetaldehyde from saliva with L-cysteine, which is slowly released from a special buccal tablet. Nine healthy male volunteers took part in our study, and each subject served as his own control. A placebo or L-cysteine-containing tablet was fastened under the upper lip. Thereafter the volunteers ingested 0.8 g/kg of body weight of 10% (v/v) ethanol, and saliva samples were collected at 20 min intervals for 320 min. Salivary acetaldehyde and ethanol levels were analysed by headspace gas chromatography. The mean reduction of acetaldehyde concentration of the saliva with the L-cysteine tablet compared to placebo was 59% (CL(95%) 43%, 76%). Area under the curve (AUC(0-320min)) with the L-cysteine and placebo tablet were 54.3 +/- 11 microM x hr and 162 +/- 34.2 microM x hr (mean +/- SEM), respectively (p = 0.003). After alcohol intake, up to two-thirds of carcinogenic acetaldehyde can be removed from saliva with a slow-releasing buccal L-cysteine drug formulation. Thus, a buccal cysteine tablet could potentially be used to prevent upper GI-tract cancers, especially among high-risk individuals.
17660483	The oral, once-daily phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor roflumilast lacks relevant pharmacokinetic interactions with inhaled budesonide.	This open-label, randomized, 3-period crossover study evaluated the pharmacokinetic interaction potential of roflumilast and budesonide following repeated coadministration to healthy male subjects (N = 12). Treatments consisted of oral roflumilast 500 mug, once daily, orally inhaled budesonide 800 mug, twice daily, and concomitant administration of both treatments for 7 days each. Roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide in plasma and budesonide serum levels were measured by specific assays. Geometric mean test/reference ratios of steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters were evaluated by analysis of variance. Safety and tolerability were monitored. Pharmacokinetic parameters of roflumilast, roflumilast N-oxide, and budesonide after coadministration of roflumilast and budesonide were similar to those after mono-treatment. Compared with budesonide and roflumilast mono-treatments, slightly lower maximum serum/plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the curve (AUC) values of roflumilast N-oxide and budesonide (ranging from -8% to -16%) were observed with combined treatment. All test/reference ratios were within predefined equivalence acceptance ranges for roflumilast AUC (0.80, 1.25) and C(max) (0.70, 1.43) and for roflumilast N-oxide and budesonide AUC and C(max) (all 0.67, 1.50). Coadministration of roflumilast and budesonide did not alter the steady-state disposition of each other and did not affect safety and tolerability of either drug.
22803802	Mechanism-based inhibition of human cytochrome P450-3A activity by grapefruit hybrids having low furanocoumarin content.	A citrus breeding program aimed at developing low furanocoumarin (FC) grapefruit cultivars provided 40 grapefruit juice (GFJ) samples containing variable concentrations of FC derivatives, established as being mechanism-based (irreversible) inhibitors of human CYP3A isoforms. The principal inhibitory FCs were identified as 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin, along with a series of dimeric compounds (spiroesters) having high inhibitory potency. A random subset of the GFJ samples (n = 25) were tested as CYP3A inhibitors using an in vitro model based on human liver microsomal metabolism of the index substrate triazolam. The reciprocal values of in vitro 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) were highly correlated with concentrations of inhibitory FCs in the GFJ samples (r(2) = 0.96). However the correlations were driven mainly by a few samples having high FC content and high reciprocal IC(50) (corresponding to low IC(50)). Among the rest of the samples, the relationship was less robust. Further study is needed to determine how low the FC content needs to be (or how high the IC(50) needs to be) to assure minimal risk of clinical interactions involving GFJ and CYP3A substrate drugs.
7987490	Simultaneous determination of plasma haloperidol and its metabolite reduced haloperidol by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Plasma levels in schizophrenic patients treated with oral or intramuscular depot haloperidol.	A simple and highly sensitive liquid chromatographic method with electrochemical detection for the simultaneous determination of haloperidol and its metabolite reduced haloperidol in human plasma has been developed. The sample preparation for the analysis involves a simple one-step extraction procedure with 10% methylene chloride in pentane. The compounds were separated on a cyano column maintained at a temperature of 40 degrees C and were detected electrochemically by a flow-through analytical cell kept at +0.95 V. The standard curve is linear over the range of 0.1 to 15 ng/ml and the lower limit of quantitation is 0.1 ng/ml for haloperidol and 0.25 ng/ml for reduced haloperidol which is equivalent to approximately 40 pg on column when 1 ml of plasma was used for the analysis. The lower limit of quantitation for reduced haloperidol can be extended to 0.1 ng/ml if 2 ml of plasma is used in the analysis. The coefficient of variation of the determination of plasma levels by this method over the standard curve concentration range was less than 10%. Commonly co-administered drugs and other neuroleptics used in conjunction with haloperidol did not interfere in the determination of either haloperidol or reduced haloperidol. This method has been successfully used for the determination of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol in plasma and their levels in patients treated with various doses oral haloperidol or intramuscular haloperidol decanoate are reported.
15712367	Metabolism of xanthohumol and isoxanthohumol, prenylated flavonoids from hops (Humulus lupulus L.), by human liver microsomes.	The female flowers of hops (Humulus lupulus L.) used to flavor beer contain the prenylated flavonoids xanthohumol (XN) and isoxanthohumol (IX). IX is moderately estrogenic in vitro and XN has pharmacological properties that might make it useful as a cancer chemopreventive agent. The metabolism of these dietary flavonoids was investigated in vitro using human liver microsomes. Hydroxylation of a prenyl methyl group was the primary route of oxidative metabolism forming either cis or trans hydroxylated metabolites of IX but only the trans isomer of XN. The double bond on the prenyl group of both compounds formed an epoxide which was opened by an intramolecular reaction with the neighboring hydroxyl group. The potent phytoestrogen 8-prenylnaringenin (8-PN) was detected as a demethylation product of IX. However, the analogous demethylation reaction was not observed for XN. Since XN can be converted to IX through acid-catalyzed cyclization in the stomach, XN might contribute to the in vivo levels of estrogenic 8-PN following consumption of hops extracts.
17292523	Evaluation of genetic damage in Brazilian footwear-workers: biomarkers of exposure, effect, and susceptibility.	Employees in the footwear manufacturing industry are routinely exposed to complex mixtures of solvents used in cleaning and as diluents in glues, primers, and degreasers. The objective of this study was to determine the genotoxic effects in a group of footwear-workers occupationally exposed to solvent-based adhesive and solutions containing organic solvents, mainly toluene. Peripheral blood and buccal cells samples were collected from 39 footwear-workers (31 males and 8 females) and 55 controls (44 males and 11 females). As biomarker of exposure, we obtained data on hippuric acid (HA), the main metabolite of toluene in urine, and DNA damage detected by the Comet assay in blood cells. Micronucleus frequencies in binucleated lymphocytes (BNMN) and in epithelial buccal cells (EBCMN) were analyzed as biomarkers of effect, while polymorphisms in genes GSTT1, GSTM1, GSTP1, CYP1A1, and CYP2E1 were used as susceptibility biomarkers. Results of HA and Comet assay showed statistical increased values amongst footwear-workers relative to controls (P < or = 0.001). No differences were observed in BNMN and EBCMN frequencies between the groups, but a correlation test revealed that age was significantly associated with BNMN frequency in both control (r(s)=0.290; P < or = 0.05) and exposed groups (r(s)=0.674; P < or = 0.001). Regarding the results on genetic polymorphisms, GSTM1 null subjects from the control group showed a significant increase in EBCMN frequency relative to GSTM1 non-null subjects (P < or = 0.05). A significant increase in DNA damage detected by Comet assay in leukocytes was obtained for GSTP1 Ile/Val or Val/Val individuals from the exposed group relative to those with GSTP1 Ile/Ile (P < or = 0.05), especially in younger subjects (P < or = 0.01), and a suggestion of interaction with CYP2E1 polymorphism was found. In confirmation of these data, stepwise multiple regression analyses for selecting between the different independent variables showed that about 25% of levels of the DNA damage in footwear-worker can be associated with genetic polymorphisms in GSTP1 and CYP2E1 (P=0.006, F=5.876).
12710594	Metabolism of salbutamol differs between asthmatic patients and healthy volunteers.	Patients with asthma are a target group for medication with beta2-agonists, often in combination with corticosteroids. Salbutamol is commonly marketed as racemate. R-Salbutamol carries beta2-agonistic property whereas S-salbutamol does not. The racemate undergoes stereoselective sulphatisation by sulfotransferases mainly in the gut and liver, so that S-salbutamol rests for a longer time in the body and reaches higher plasma levels than R-salbutamol. Ten patients with mild stable asthma and at present without cortisone medication were given racemic salbutamol as ventoline 4 mg orally. Plasma and urine levels were estimated until 24 hr after ingestion. For comparison healthy volunteers were treated in the same way. The group of asthma patients was then treated with budesonide inhalations 800 microg daily for one week and the initial programme resumed. Non-cortisone-treated asthmatic patients displayed higher levels of both R- and S-salbutamol in plasma than did healthy volunteers after one single ingestion of racemic salbutamol (CMAX both comparisons P<0.05). Plasma levels of salbutamol isomers in cortisone-treated asthmatic patients resembled the levels in volunteers. The most plausible explanation for the discrepancy in values between asthmatic patients and volunteers is a defective metabolic function by asthmatic patients possibly enzymatic in origin.
7482685	Inhibition of trazodone metabolism by thioridazine in humans.	To clarify the involvement of cytochrome P4502D6 (CYP2D6) in the metabolism of trazodone, the effects of coadministration of thioridazine, which is an inhibitor of this isozyme, on plasma concentrations of trazodone and its active metabolite m-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP) were studied. The subjects were 11 depressed patients receiving trazodone at bedtime for 1-18 weeks. The dose was 150 mg in 10 patients and 300 mg in one. Thioridazine 40 mg/day was coadministered for 1 week, and blood samplings were performed before and after the coadministration. Thioridazine significantly (p < 0.001) increased plasma concentrations of both trazodone (713 +/- 252 vs. 969 +/- 370 ng/ml) and m-CPP (61 +/- 22 vs. 94 +/- 34 ng/ml). The present study thus suggests that CYP2D6 is involved in the metabolism of trazodone.
19661559	Doping control analysis of metamfepramone and two major metabolites using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	The sympathomimetic agent metamfepramone (2-dimethylamino-1-phenylpropan-1-one, dimethylpropion) is widely used for the treatment of the common cold or hypotonic conditions. Due to its stimulating properties and its rapid metabolism resulting in major degradation products such as methylpseudoephedrine and methcathinone, it has been considered relevant for doping controls by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The rapid degradation of the active drug complicates the detection of metamfepramone itself but the metabolites methylpseudoephedrine and methcathinone can be monitored, and the finding of the latter in particular allows the inference of a metamfepramone administration. In order to improve sports drug testing procedures, metamfepramone, methylpseudoephedrine and methcathinone were characterized using electrospray ionization-high resolution/high accuracy mass spectrometry, and a method employing liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry was established that allowed the analysis of these three analytes by direct injection of 2 microL of urine specimens. The assay was validated with regard to specificity, lower limits of detection (2-10 ng mL(-1)), intraday and interday precision (3-17%) and ion suppression/enhancement effects. The developed procedure has been used to verify or falsify suspicious signals observed in routine screening procedures based on gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and yielded an adverse analytical finding concerning a metamfepramone administration in an authentic doping control sample. Although the active drug was not detected, the indicative metabolites methylpseudoephedrine and methcathinone were considered sufficient to infer the application of the prohibited drug.
16714152	Determination of 5-chloro-7-iodo-8-quinolinol (clioquinol) in plasma and tissues of hamsters by high-performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection.	This paper describes a method of determining clioquinol levels in hamster plasma and tissue by means of HPLC and electrochemical detection. Clioquinol was separated on a Nucleosil C18 300 mm x 3.9 mm i.d. 7 microm column at 1 ml/min using a phosphate/citrate buffer 0.1M (400 ml) with 600 ml of a methanol:acetonitrile (1:1, v/v) mobile phase. The retention times of clioquinol and the IS were, respectively, 11.6 and 8.1 min; the quantitation limit (CV>8%) was 5 ng/ml in plasma and 10 ng/ml in tissues. The intra- and inter-assay accuracies of the method were more than 95%, with coefficients of variation between 3.0 and 7.7%, and plasma and tissue recovery rates of 72-77%. There was a linear response to clioquinol 5-2000 ng/ml in plasma, and 10-1000 ng/g in tissues. The method is highly sensitive and selective, makes it possible to study the pharmacokinetics of plasma clioquinol after oral administration and the distribution of clioquinol in tissues, and could be used to monitor plasma clioquinol levels in humans.
19255936	Validation of cytochrome P450 time-dependent inhibition assays: a two-time point IC50 shift approach facilitates kinact assay design.	1. Recent guidance from the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) has advocated testing of time-dependent inhibition of cytochrome P450 (CYP), which can be addressed by performing IC(50) shift as well as K(I)/k(inact) determinations. 2. Direct (IC(50), K(i)) and time-dependent inhibition (IC(50) shift, K(I)/k(inact)) assays were validated in human liver microsomes with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) analysis for the following enzyme/substrate/inhibitor combinations: CYP1A2/phenacetin/alpha-naphthoflavone/furafylline, CYP2C8/amodiaquine/montelukast/gemfibrozil-1-O-beta-glucuronide, CYP2C9/diclofenac/sulfaphenazole/tienilic acid, CYP2C19/S-mephenytoin/S-benzylnirvanol/S-fluoxetine, CYP2D6/dextromethorphan/quinidine/paroxetine, and CYP3A4/midazolam/testosterone/ketoconazole/azamulin/verapamil/diltiazem. IC(50) shift assays were performed with two pre-incubation time points (10 and 30 min) to facilitate k(inact) assay design. 3. Data obtained show good agreement with literature values. For rapid acting inhibitors, such as azamulin/CYP3A4 and tienilic acid/CYP2C9, the IC(50) shifts were similar at both time points suggesting a short maximum pre-incubation time with closely spaced time points for the K(I)/k(inact) assay. Slow acting inhibitors (such as verapamil/CYP3A4 or S-fluoxetine/CYP2C19) showed an increase in IC(50) shift between 10 and 30 min suggesting a longer maximum pre-incubation time with wider spacing of time points for K(I)/k(inact). 4. The two-time point IC(50) shift experiment proved to be an excellent method for the selection of appropriate K(I)/k(inact) assay parameters and is suitable for the routine analysis of P450 inhibition by drug candidates.
16318905	Characterization of human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of rutaecarpine.	Rutaecarpine has recently been characterized to have an anti-inflammatory activity through cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition. The incubation of rutaecarpine with human liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH generated six isobaric mono-hydroxylated metabolites. The specific cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes responsible for rutaecarpine metabolites were identified using the combination of chemical inhibition, immuno-inhibition and metabolism by cDNA expressed CYP enzymes. The results suggested that CYP3A4 might play major roles in the metabolism of rutaecarpine in human liver microsomes. The production of M1, M2, M3, M4 and M6 formed in human liver microsomes was inhibited by ketoconazole, a selective CYP3A4 inhibitor, and anti-CYP3A4 antibody. CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 played minor roles in the metabolism of rutaecarpine. These results were confirmed in microsomes derived from cDNA expressed lymphoblastoid cells. CYP3A4 microsome clearly formed M1, M2, M3 and M6. CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 microsomes comparably formed M5.
11355849	High-performance liquid chromatographic method combining radiochemical and ultraviolet detection for determination of low activities of uridine 5'-diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase.	A novel reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method was developed to measure UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) activity. Radiochemical and UV detection were combined in this UDP-[(14)C]glucuronic acid-utilizing method which was especially aimed at determination of low activities typical of N-glucuronidation of various amines and heterocycles. 4-Nitrophenol and levomedetomidine were used as substrates to validate this method, and applicability was tested with commonly used model substrates of N-glucuronidation, 4-aminobiphenyl and amitriptyline, and several 4-arylalkyl-1H-imidazole compounds. Detection limits were very low, 0.5-10 pmol, corresponding to UGT activities from 0.04 to 0.8 pmol/min/mg protein depending on UV absorbance of the glucuronide conjugate. The sensitivity was 10- to 100-fold compared with earlier HPLC assays using radiochemical detection. This method enabled quantitation without a reference glucuronide, and its high sensitivity allows for characterization of N-glucuronidation kinetics of various substrates. Using this method, human liver microsomal UGT activity was determined for a series of 4-arylalkyl-1H-imidazoles. Of these compounds, levomedetomidine was glucuronidated at the highest rate, 1.69 nmol/min/mg protein, using a 500 microM substrate concentration. In comparison, activities for the commonly used UGT substrates, 4-nitrophenol, 4-aminobiphenyl, and amitriptyline were 18.80, 3.23, and 0.23 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively.
6447570	Mezlocillin pharmacokinetics in renal impairment.	Mezlocillin kinetics was examined in 28 adult subjects with varying renal function. Mezlocillin 3 gm, was infused over 30 min. Mean peak plasma concentrations ranged from 204 to 253 mg/I. When the area under the curve (AUC) was plotted against creatinine clearance (CCr), the relationship found was expressed by the equation AUC = 656e(-0.01)(CCr). From this relationship a dosage nonogram was derived describing a power function with the following equaton: Dose fraction = 1.32--e(-0.01)(CCr). Therapeutic guidelines are suggested.
16040	Metabolic studies in patients with nadolol: oral and intravenous administration.	Nadolol-14C, 2,3-cis-5-(3-[(1,1-dimethylethyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropoxy)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2,3-naphthalenediol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent, was administered orally and intravenously at 2-mg doses to patients with mild cases of essential hypertension. Terminal plasma half-times after oral and intravenous doses were an average of 12.2 and 9.8 hours, respectively. After oral doses, an average of 24.6 and 76.9 per cent of the dose was excreted in urine and feces, respectively, whereas, after intravenous doses, an average of 72.9 and 23.3 per cent of the dose was excreted by the same routes. Calculations of absorption, based on urinary excretion and on areas under the plasma concentration-versus-time curves, indicated that oral doses of nadolol-14C were absorbed to the extent of 33.6+/-2.4 per cent (+/- S.E.). The average overall volume of distribution after intravenous administration was 2.09+/-0.51 1./kg (+/- S.E.), and the average volume of the central compartment was 0.30+/-0.04 1./kg. Only unchanged nadolol-14C was excreted in the urine and feces of patients after either oral or intravenous administration of the drug.
12450544	Simultaneous liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric determination of albendazole sulfoxide and albendazole sulfone in plasma.	This paper describes a simple, fast, sensitive and reliable method for the simultaneous determination of albendazole sulfoxide (ASOX) and albendazole sulfone (ASON), the two most important metabolites of the drug albendazole (ABZ), in plasma samples using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. After liquid-liquid extraction with dichloromethane, the two albendazole metabolites and the internal standard phenacetin were resolved in a CN column using the mobile phase methanol-water (4:6, v/v) acidified with 1% acetic acid. Detection by electrospray mass spectrometry was carried out in the positive ion mode. The method was linear up to 2500 and 250 ng/ml for ASOX and ASON, respectively, with mean recoveries of more than 85%. The precision and accuracy data, based on within- and between-day variations over 5 days, were lower than 15%. The quantitation limits of 0.5 and 5.0 ng/ml for ASON and ASOX are low enough for the method to be suitable for pharmacokinetic studies. Pharmacokinetic data obtained with the proposed method following oral administration of ABZ to a patient with neurocysticercosis are also reported.
21417487	Bioactivation of substituted thiophenes including -chlorothiophene-containing compounds in human liver microsomes.	The thiophene moiety has been recognized as a toxicophore because of the potential of oxidative bioactivation leading to electrophilic species. The introduction of bulky or electron-withdrawing groups at the -carbon to the sulfur atom has the potential to reduce or eliminate bioactivation. In this article, we describe the bioactivation of a variety of substituted thiophenes. These compounds were incubated in NADPH-fortified human liver microsomes with or without the addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) as a trapping agent. The resulting GSH adducts were characterized by high performance liquid chromatography/high resolution mass spectrometry with the aid of a background subtraction methodology. Four of the five -chlorothiophenes tested formed NADPH-dependent GSH adducts. Most adducts had masses consistent with the nominal substitution of chlorine by GSH. LC/MS/MS and proton NMR of the major GSH adduct of 1-(5-chlorothiophen-2-yl)ethanone (1a) confirmed that GSH displaced chlorine. To further explore the effect of different substitutions on the bioactivation potential, a series of 2-acetylthiophenes substituted at the C4 or C5 positions were tested in a quantitative thiol-trapping assay using dansyl glutathione. Substitutions at the C4 or C5 positions gave adduct levels that decreased in the following order: 4-H, 5-H (no substitution) > 4-Br  4-Cl > 5-Cl > 5-CN > 4-CH(3) > 5-Br > 5-CH(3) (no adduct detected). In conclusion, bioactivation was detected in a series of substituted thiophenes. Although substitutions on the thiophene ring can reduce the formation of reactive metabolites, the degree of reduction is dependent on the substitution position and substituent.
17045317	Oxidant/antioxidant interactions of nicotine, Coenzyme Q10, Pycnogenol and phytoestrogens in oral periosteal fibroblasts and MG63 osteoblasts.	There is a growing awareness that oxidative stress may play a role in periodontal disease. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate potential oxidant/antioxidant interactions of nicotine with antioxidants (Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ), Pycnogenol and phytoestrogens in a cell culture model. Duplicate incubations of human periosteal fibroblasts and osteoblasts were performed with 14C-testosterone as substrate, in the presence or absence of CoQ (20 microg/ml), Pycnogenol (150 microg/ml), and phytoestrogens (10 and 40 microg/ml), alone and in combination with nicotine (250 microg/ml). At the end of a 24-h incubation period, the medium was solvent extracted and testosterone metabolites were separated by thin-layer chromatography and quantified using a radioisotope scanner. The incubations of osteoblasts and periosteal fibroblasts with CoQ, Pycnogenol or phytoestrogens stimulated the synthesis of the physiologically active androgen DHT, while the yields of DHT were significantly reduced in response to nicotine compared to control values (p<0.001 for phytoestrogens). The combination of nicotine with CoQ, Pycnogenol or phytoestrogens increased the yields of DHT compared with incubation with nicotine alone in both cell types. This investigation suggests that the catabolic effects of nicotine could be reversed by the addition of antioxidants such as CoQ or Pycnogenol and phytoestrogens.
15885945	Metabolites of ephedrines in human urine after administration of a single therapeutic dose.	Ephedrine (EPH), pseudoephedrine (PEPH), phenylpropanolamine (PPA), methylephedrine (MEPH) and cathine are sympathomimetic amines. These drugs are commonly found in over-the-counter (OTC) cold medicines and some dietary supplements. In Taiwan, the misuse of these drugs has resulted in an increase in athletic violations. Excretion studies of the ephedrine-related drugs have been performed to better understand the metabolic yields of ephedrines in urine. After consuming a single clinical dose of each of these drugs, urine samples from volunteers (n=3 for each drug) were subjected to tert-butyl-methyl-ether (TBME) extraction and trifluoroacetic acid (TFAA) derivatization before gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. Most ephedrines were excreted unchanged in urine, including EPH (40.9%), PEPH (72.2%), and PPA (59.3%). However, only a relatively small amount of MEPH (15.5%) was excreted unchanged in urine. In addition, a trace amount of PPA (1.6%) and cathine (0.7%) was found to be the metabolites of EPH and PEPH, respectively. Urinary EPH, PEPH, and PPA reached peaks at 2-6h and disappeared in urine at approximately 24-48 h post-administration. For MEPH, the peaks of excretion extended from 4 to 12h post-administration and were undetectable at approximately 48 h. A single clinical dose of EPH (25 mg) may exceed threshold level (10 microg/mL) in sport drug testing if the urine samples are tested within approximately 8h post-administration. However, a single dose of MEPH (20 mg) never reached the threshold value (10 microg/mL).
7666767	Analysis of metabolism and genotoxicity of 5-nitro-3-thiophenecarboxanilides in bacterial, mammalian and human cells.	5-nitro-3-thiophenecarboxanilide (NTCA3) was clearly mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, YG1021 (the strain with elevated nitroreductase) and YG1024 (the strain with elevated O-acetyltransferase) and only slightly mutagenic at the gpt locus in AS52 cells. Clastogenic activity in human lymphocytes was dependent on the length of exposure: detectable chromosome aberrations were observed following a 24 h treatment period, but not after 3 h exposure. S9 increased genotoxicity in both mammalian cells and human lymphocytes. Metabolites formed by incubation of NTCA3 with the different cell systems were examined. A time-course study in cell whole extracts showed that bacterial and mammalian cells can acetylate NTCA3 forming 5-acetylamino-3-thiophene-carboxanilide. The formation of this metabolite in human lymphocyte extracts was not confirmed. These data support the conclusions that: (i) both bacterial and mammalian activation pathways play a role in mutations by NTCA3; (ii) the N-acetylated derivative is generated by acyl-transferase after reduction and is the end product of the metabolism in both bacterial and mammalian cells; and (iii) different levels of reductase and acetyltransferase activity may contribute to the differential sensitivity of the different cellular species to the genotoxicity of NTCA3. The fact that NTCA3 serves as substrate for enzymatic activities of importance also in human metabolism needs consideration in assessing the potential risk posed by NTCAs.
19915829	The pharmacokinetic profile of fesoterodine 8 mg with daytime or nighttime dosing.	Diurnal variation can affect drug pharmacokinetics. Fesoterodine is a new antimuscarinic drug for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB). We estimated the relative bioavailability of 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), the active metabolite of fesoterodine, following nighttime and daytime administration. In this randomized, open-label, two-period, two-treatment crossover, single-dose study, healthy subjects received daytime and nighttime oral dosing of fesoterodine 8-mg sustained-release tablets, separated by a minimum 60-h washout period. Blood samples for 5-HMT PK determination were collected before dosing and at specified intervals up to 48 h postdose. Safety was assessed by adverse event (AE) reports. Fourteen subjects completed the study. Plasma concentration versus time profiles (AUC) of 5-HMT were similar for daytime and nighttime dosing. Mean AUC(infinity) 5-HMT values were 47.9 and 51.4 ng h/mL for nighttime and daytime dosing, respectively; the mean time to reach maximum concentration (C(max)) values were 3.9 and 5.0 ng/mL, respectively. Nighttime versus daytime AUC(infinity) and C(max) ratios of 5-HMT were 93 and 79%, respectively; 90% confidence intervals (CIs) indicated equivalence for AUC(infinity) but not for C(max). The median time to reach maximum concentration (T(max)) was 5.0 h for both dosing regimens, and the mean terminal elimination half-life (T((1/2))) was 5.9 and 5.7 h for nighttime and daytime dosing, respectively. Seven treatment-related AEs, most commonly headache, occurred in five subjects. The AUC values for daytime and nighttime administration of fesoterodine were equivalent. The 21% reduction in the C(max) for nighttime dosing is unlikely to be clinically relevant. No safety issues were apparent. These results support both daytime and nighttime administration of fesoterodine for OAB treatment.
17164692	Mechanisms of venoocclusive disease resulting from the combination of cyclophosphamide and roxithromycin.	High doses (>or=500 mg/m) of cyclophosphamide are known to cause venoocclusive disease (VOD). The authors recently observed a patient treated with immunosuppressive cyclophosphamide doses (100 mg/day) and roxithromycin who developed VOD. Because roxithromycin inhibits cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and P-glycoprotein, the patient may have been exposed to higher cyclophosphamide and/or cyclophosphamide metabolite concentrations. The effect of roxithromycin on the metabolism and toxicity of cyclophosphamide was studied using human hepatic microsomes and a human endothelial cell line. Cyclophosphamide or roxithromycin at concentrations from 0.05 to 500 micromol/L were not toxic to endothelial cells as assessed by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage assay. However, the combination of roxithromycin (500 micromol/L) and cyclophosphamide was toxic for all the tested cyclophosphamide concentrations (0.05 to 500 micromol/L) without clear concentration dependence (LDH ratio 38.3 +/- 11.0 [mean +/- SEM] for the combination with cyclophosphamide 0.05 micromol/L and 50.2 +/- 10.2 for the combination with cyclophosphamide 500 micromol/L; P <or= 0.005 for all tested combinations vs. control). Although roxithromycin did not favor the generation of toxic metabolites from cyclophosphamide, it led to cyclophosphamide accumulation due to inhibition of both CYP3A4 and CYP2B6. Although roxithromycin inhibited P-glycoprotein, this was not the mechanism by which cyclophosphamide toxicity was increased because cyclophosphamide in combination with other P-glycoprotein inhibitors was not toxic to endothelial cells. In the presence of roxithromycin (500 micromol/L), cyclophosphamide (500 micromol/L) induced apoptosis in endothelial cells (34.3 +/- 10.4% apoptotic cells [in % of total cells] for the combination of cyclophosphamide and roxithromycin, 0.7 +/- 0.25% for cyclophosphamide alone, 0% for roxithromycin alone; P < 0.0001) most probably by mitochondrial membrane permeability transition and release of cytochrome c. The combination cyclophosphamide and roxithromycin, but not the individual compounds, is toxic to endothelial cells by inducing apoptosis. Inhibition of P-glycoprotein and formation of toxic metabolites are unlikely causes.
22419259	Attenuation of phosphorylation by deoxycytidine kinase is key to acquired gemcitabine resistance in a pancreatic cancer cell line: targeted proteomic and metabolomic analyses in PK9 cells.	Multiple proteins are involved in activation and inactivation of 2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine (gemcitabine, dFdC). We aimed to clarify the mechanism of dFdC resistance in a pancreatic cancer cell line by applying a combination of targeted proteomic and metabolomic analyses. Twenty-five enzyme and transporter proteins and 6 metabolites were quantified in sensitive and resistant pancreatic cancer cell lines, PK9 and RPK9, respectively. The protein concentration of deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) in RPK9 cells was less than 0.02-fold (2%) compared with that in PK9 cells, whereas the differences (fold) were within a factor of 3 for other proteins. Targeted metabolomic analysis revealed that phosphorylated forms of dFdC were reduced to less than 0.2% in RPK9 cells. The extracellular concentration of 2',2'-difluorodeoxyuridine (dFdU), an inactive metabolite of dFdC, reached the same level as the initial dFdC concentration in RPK9 cells. However, tetrahydrouridine treatment did not increase phosphorylated forms of dFdC and did not reverse dFdC resistance in RPK9 cells, though this treatment inhibits production of dFdU. Combining targeted proteomics and metabolomics suggests that acquisition of resistance in RPK9 cells is due to attenuation of dFdC phosphorylation via suppression of dCK.
7049181	Drug protein conjugates--I. A study of the covalent binding of [14C]captopril to plasma proteins in the rat.	The metabolism of [14C]captopril has been investigated in vitro and in vivo in male Wistar rats. The formation of conjugates of [14C]captopril with plasma proteins was observed both in vitro and in vivo: 180 min after intravenous infusion of [14C]captopril 35 +/- 5% of total radioactivity was covalently bound to plasma proteins. The fate of [14C]captopril-plasma protein conjugates was investigated in vivo. [14C]Captopril was incubated in vitro with rat and human plasma and the resulting captopril-protein conjugates were infused into male rats. The plasma concentration of [14C]captopril-rat plasma protein conjugates declined monoexponentially with a half-life of 71.1 +/- 2.2 min. After 180 min 28 +/- 3% of the radioactivity was excreted in urine, largely as [14C]captopril-cysteine mixed disulphide (67%). Thus although captopril readily forms covalent bonds with plasma proteins the resulting conjugates dissociate in vivo. The toxicological implications of these findings are discussed.
9073308	Monitoring of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate in saliva from children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia receiving high-dose consolidation treatment: relation to oral mucositis.	The purpose of the study was to find out if saliva concentrations of methotrexate (MTX) and its main metabolite, 7-hydroxymethotrexate (7-OHMTX), can predict oral mucositis in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) after treatment with high-dose consolidation therapy. We have also studied the relationship between the concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX in saliva and the unbound concentrations in plasma. Twelve patients (36 infusions) were studied during treatment with high-dose MTX as remission consolidation therapy (5-8 g/m2 by 24 h i.v. infusion followed by leucovorin rescue). Plasma and saliva concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX were determined concomitantly by HPLC at 20 h and at various times following infusion. Unbound plasma concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX were determined after ultrafiltration. Oral toxicity was graded according to the WHO criteria (grade 0-4). The concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX in saliva were not directly related to the development of mucositis. In patients with oral mucositis (WHO grade 1 or greater), the ratio to 7-OHMTX and MTX in saliva at 20 h was significantly lower than in patients without symptoms (p = 0.014, Mann Whitney rank sum test), but not at 42 and 66 h after starting the infusion. The salivary concentration of 7-OHMTX at 20 h ranged from undetectable (less than 1 nmol/l) to 1.6 micromol/l. No significant correlation was found between the unbound and total plasma concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX and the drug concentrations in saliva at different points in time. The concentrations of 7-OHMTX in saliva were 11, 23 and 13% of the unbound plasma concentrations at 20, 42 and 66 h, respectively, after starting the infusion. The respective median corresponding values for MTX were 1.6, 16.1 and 61.6%. The results suggest that determinations of saliva concentrations of MTX and 7-OHMTX may predict oral mucositis. This opens up the possibility of early identification of patients at high risk of developing oral mucositis in order to intensify topical or systemic treatment of these patients.
6205660	Detection by high-performance liquid chromatography of methotrexate and its metabolites in tumor tissue from osteosarcoma patients treated with high-dose methotrexate/leucovorin rescue.	Methotrexate (MTX) polyglutamates were detected in osteogenic sarcoma tumor samples obtained from patients 24 or 48 h after receiving high-dose MTX/leucovorin rescue therapy. Tumor samples were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography, and polyglutamyl metabolites, along with MTX, were quantitated using both direct u.v. absorption at 313 nm and an enzyme titration assay. Good agreement between these two methods was found although the more sensitive enzyme assay detected peaks in some samples not detected by u.v. absorbance. A wide variation in MTX:MTX polyglutamate levels (1:1 to 25:1) was found among the six clinical samples studied. Also, no correlation between the extent of polyglutamate formation and plasma levels (determined at the time of tumor sampling) was observed. High intracellular levels of a derivative which appears to be the 7-hydroxy metabolite of MTX were also detected in four of six samples. This material coeluted with authentic standard, showed spectral properties like standard 7-OH-MTX, and did not inhibit dihydrofolate reductase.
18952506	A liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assay for the determination of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its two major metabolites in human liver microsomal incubations and human plasma samples.	A sensitive, rapid LC-MS/MS assay has been developed and validated for the simultaneous quantification of CPT-11 and its two principal metabolites, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), and 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxy-camptothecin (APC) in human liver microsomal fractions and plasma. The method was linear over the ranges of 1.56-100 ng/mL, 3.13-150 ng/mL, and 0.78-100 ng/mL for CPT-11, SN-38, and APC, respectively. The total run time was 7.0 min. This assay offers advantages in terms of expediency, recovery of analytes, and suitability for the analysis of CPT-11 and its metabolites in various biological fluids.
12920491	Metabolism and elimination of quinine in healthy volunteers.	The aims were to investigate: (1) The renal elimination of quinine and its metabolites 3-hydoxyquinine, 2'-quininone, (10R) and (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine and (2) the relative importance of CYP3A4, CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 for the formation of 2'-quininone, (10R) and (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine in vivo. In a randomised three-way crossover study, nine healthy Swedish subjects received a single oral dose of quinine hydrochloride (500 mg), on three different occasions: (A) alone, (B) concomitantly with ketoconazole (100 mg twice daily for 3 days) and (C) concomitantly with fluvoxamine (25 mg twice daily for 2 days). Blood and urine samples were collected before quinine intake and up to 96 h thereafter. All samples were analysed by means of high-performance liquid chromatography. Co-administration with ketoconazole significantly increased the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of 2'-quininone, (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine, and (10R)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine, the geometric mean ratios (90% CI) of the AUC were 1.9 (1.8, 2.0), 1.3 (1.1, 1.7) and 1.6 (1.4, 1.8), respectively. Co-administration with fluvoxamine had no significant effect on the mean AUC of any of the metabolites. A mean of 56% of the administered oral quinine dose was recovered in urine after hydrolysis with beta-glucuronidase relative to the 40% recovered before hydrolysis. Quinine is eliminated in urine mainly as unchanged drug and as 3-hydroxyquinine. The major metabolite of quinine is 3-hydroxyquinine formed by CYP3A4. There is no evidence for the involvement of CYP3A4, 1A2 or 2C19 in the formation of 2'-quininone, (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine and (10R)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine in vivo. Glucuronidation is an important pathway for the renal elimination of quinine, mainly as direct conjugation of the drug.
7839694	Metabolism of lofepramine and imipramine in liver microsomes from rat and man.	1. The in vitro metabolism of lofepramine was studied in comparison with imipramine. Both compounds were hydroxylated and demethylated by a NADPH-generating system in rat and human liver microsomes. 2. Three metabolites were in common for the two drugs, namely desipramine (DMI), 2-hydroxydesipramine (2-OH-DMI) and didesmethylimipramine (DDMI). 3. Lofepramine was also metabolized to three unique tricyclic metabolites. Comparisons with authentic reference compounds suggested that two of these metabolites were 2-hydroxylofepramine and desmethyllofepramine. 4. The ratio between the concentrations of DDMI and DMI was higher for lofepramine than imipramine. This is probably due to DDMI formation via two parallel metabolic pathways of lofepramine, i.e. DMI and desmethyllofepramine, respectively. 5. It is speculated that the different metabolic pattern of lofepramine as compared with desipramine and imipramine is of importance for the therapeutic profile of the drug.
12519690	4-Biphenylaldehyde and 9-anthraldehyde: two fluorescent substrates for determining P450 enzyme activities in rat and human.	1. 4-Biphenylaldehyde (4-BA) and 9-anthraldehyde (9-AA) were examined as substrates for cytochrome P450 (CYPs) enzymes in rat and human. Both aldehydes were oxidized by CYPs to fluorescent carboxylic acids, which can be assayed with a high sensitivity by an easy fluorimetric method. 2. With liver microsomes from control and induced rats, the oxidation of both 9-AA and 4-BA followed simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Only microsomes from rats pretreated with phenobarbital (a strong inducer of P4502B1/2) could increase (about threefold) the oxidation rates (V(max)) of both aldehydes above the control values, which were 6.7+/-1.1 and 3.3+/-0.6 nmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein for 4-BA and 9-AA, respectively. On the other hand, the (K)(m)'s, which were similar for both aldehydes (about 25 micro M), did not change significantly with any inducer. The use of purified rat CYP1A1, 2E1, 2B1 and 2C11 in a reconstituted system showed that only 2B1 and 2C11 could oxidize both substrates with a high turnover. 3. In human liver microsomes, the oxidation rates of these aldehydes (1.6+/-0.2 and 0.42+/-0.1 nmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein for 4-BA and 9-AA, respectively) were lower than those of rat but with similar K(m)'s(20-26 microm). 4. The oxidation of these aldehydes was also determined with cDNA-expressed CYP1A1, 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 and with a characterized bank of 14 human liver microsomes. In a reconstituted system, only CYP2B6, 2A6, 3A4 and with a lower turnover 2C9 oxidized both substrates. 5. Among the CYP marker activities of the 14 human samples, good correlations were only observed between CYP3A-dependent 6 beta-testosterone hydroxylase and the oxidation of 4-BA (r = 0.74) or 9-AA (r = 0.80) and between the oxidation of 4-BA versus 9-AA (r = 0.74). Weak correlations were also found between the 2B6-linked S-mephenytoin N- demethylase and the oxidation of 4-BA (r = 0.58) or 9-AA (r = 0.65). 6. Inhibition experiments revealed that the oxidation of these aldehydes was inhibited by ketoconazole, 8-methoxypsoralene and sulphophenazole, selective inhibitors for P4503A6, 2A6 and 2C9, respectively. 7. In summary, based on the use of cDNA-expressed CYPs, correlation analysis and chemical inhibition, the metabolism in human liver microsomes of these aldehydes appears primarily catalysed by CYP3A, although CYP2A6, 2B6 and 2C9 may play a role. 9-AA and particularly 4-BA, owing to the high rate of its metabolism, may be two novel useful fluorescent probe substrates for assaying CYP activities in various species.
11841783	Multiple mechanisms of resistance to methotrexate and novel antifolates in human CCRF-CEM leukemia cells and their implications for folate homeostasis.	We determined the mechanisms of resistance of human CCRF-CEM leukemia cells to methotrexate (MTX) vs. those to six novel antifolates: the polyglutamatable thymidylate synthase (TS) inhibitors ZD1694, multitargeted antifolate, pemetrexed, ALIMTA (MTA) and GW1843U89, the non-polyglutamatable inhibitors of TS, ZD9331, and dihydrofolate reductase, PT523, as well as DDATHF, a polyglutamatable glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase inhibitor. CEM cells were made resistant to these drugs by clinically relevant intermittent 24 hr exposures to 5-10 microM of MTX, ZD1694, GW1843U89, MTA and DDATHF, by intermittent 72 hr exposures to 5 microM of ZD9331 and by continuous exposure to stepwise increasing concentrations of ZD9331, GW1843U89 and PT523. Development of resistance required only 3 cycles of intermittent drug exposure to ZD1694 and MTA, but 5 cycles for MTX, DDATHF and GW1843U89 and 8 cycles for ZD9331. The predominant mechanism of resistance to ZD1694, MTA, MTX and DDATHF was impaired polyglutamylation due to approximately 10-fold decreased folylpolyglutamate synthetase activity. Resistance to intermittent exposures to GW1843U89 and ZD9331 was associated with a 2-fold decreased transport via the reduced folate carrier (RFC). The CEM cell lines resistant to intermittent exposures to MTX, ZD1694, MTA, DDATHF, GW1843U89 and ZD9331 displayed a depletion (up to 4-fold) of total intracellular reduced folate pools. Resistance to continuous exposure to ZD9331 was caused by a 14-fold increase in TS activity. CEM/GW70, selected by continuous exposure to GW1843U89 was 50-fold resistant to GW1843U89, whereas continuous exposure to PT523 generated CEM/PT523 cells that were highly resistant (1550-fold) to PT523. Both CEM/GW70 and CEM/PT523 displayed cross-resistance to several antifolates that depend on the RFC for cellular uptake, including MTX (95- and 530-fold). CEM/GW70 cells were characterized by a 12-fold decreased transport of [3H]MTX. Interestingly, however, CEM/GW70 cells displayed an enhanced transport of folic acid, consistent with the expression of a structurally altered RFC resulting in a 2.6-fold increase of intracellular folate pools. CEM/PT523 cells displayed a markedly impaired (100-fold) transport of [3H]MTX along with 12-fold decreased total folate pools. In conclusion, multifunctional mechanisms of resistance in CEM cells have a differential impact on cellular folate homeostasis: decreased polyglutamylation and transport defects lead to folate depletion, whereas a structurally altered RFC protein can provoke expanded intracellular folate pools.
15666291	Reductase-mediated metabolism of motexafin gadolinium (Xcytrin) in rat and human liver subcellular fractions and purified enzyme preparations.	The biotransformation of motexafin gadolinium (MGd, Xcytrin) was investigated in subcellular rat and human liver fractions. Microsomal MGd metabolism was dependent on NADPH in both species. Cytosolic metabolism in rat and human livers was dependent on NADPH or NADH. Under anaerobic conditions, MGd metabolism increased in liver microsomes and purified enzyme preparations. Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) inhibitors ketoconazole, proadifen, and carbon monoxide increased NADPH-dependent MGd metabolism in microsomes. Treatment of rats with beta-naphthoflavone increased cytosolic metabolism of MGd twofold, but had no effect on microsomal metabolism. Conversely, in liver preparations from phenobarbital treated rats microsomal metabolism of MGd was enhanced twofold, but not in cytosolic preparations. Purified CYP450 reductase from phenobarbital-treated rabbit or untreated human livers metabolized MGd suggesting involvement of CYP450 reductase. Dicumarol, a potent DT-diaphorase inhibitor, inhibited MGd metabolism in both rat and human liver cytosol. These data suggest MGd metabolism in rat liver involves CYP450 reductase and/or DT-diaphorase. In human liver preparations only CYP450 reductase is directly involved in MGd metabolism. A metabolite identified in microsomes and cytosol is a metal-free, reduced form of MGd, indicating that both enzymes generate metabolite 1, which appears to be PCI-0108, a synthetic precursor to MGd.
19248797	Arylamine N-acetyltransferase activity in bronchial epithelial cells and its inhibition by cellular oxidants.	Bronchial epithelial cells express xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes (XMEs) that are involved in the biotransformation of inhaled toxic compounds. The activities of these XMEs in the lung may modulate respiratory toxicity and have been linked to several diseases of the airways. Arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NAT) are conjugating XMEs that play a key role in the biotransformation of aromatic amine pollutants such as the tobacco-smoke carcinogens 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) and beta-naphthylamine (beta-NA). We show here that functional human NAT1 or its murine counterpart Nat2 are present in different lung epithelial cells i.e. Clara cells, type II alveolar cells and bronchial epithelial cells, thus indicating that inhaled aromatic amines may undergo NAT-dependent biotransformation in lung epithelium. Exposure of these cells to pathophysiologically relevant amounts of oxidants known to contribute to lung dysfunction, such as H(2)O(2) or peroxynitrite, was found to impair the NAT1/Nat2-dependent cellular biotransformation of aromatic amines. Genetic and non genetic impairment of intracellular NAT enzyme activities has been suggested to compromise the important detoxification pathway of aromatic amine N-acetylation and subsequently to contribute to an exacerbation of untoward effects of these pollutants on health. Our study suggests that oxidative/nitroxidative stress in lung epithelial cells, due to air pollution and/or inflammation, could contribute to local and/or systemic dysfunctions through the alteration of the functions of pulmonary NAT enzymes.
20940093	Development and validation of a highly sensitive GC/MS method for the determination of buprenorphine and nor-buprenorphine in blood.	A sensitive and specific GC/MS method for the determination of buprenorphine (BPN) and its main metabolite nor-buprenorphine (nor-BPN) in blood has been developed, optimized and validated. Sample preparation includes solid-phase extraction of both analytes and their derivatization with acetic anhydride in pyridine. BPN-d4 was used as internal standard for the determination of both analytes. Limits of detection and quantification for BPN and nor-BPN were 0.02 and 0.05 g/L, respectively. The calibration curves were linear within the dynamic range of each analyte (0.05-30.0 g/L) with a correlation coefficient higher than 0.996. Absolute recovery ranged from 90.2 to 97.6% for both analytes and their internal standard. Intra- and inter-day accuracy was found to be between -5.40 to 1.73% and -2.45 to 2.80%, respectively, while intra- and inter-day precision were less than 5.8 and 4.7%, for both analytes. The method was applied to real blood samples obtained from patients that follow BPN maintenance program. The developed method can be used in routine every day analysis by clinical and forensic laboratories, for pharmacokinetic studies, for therapeutic drug level monitoring in order to adjust BPN dosage of BPN maintained patients or for the investigation of forensic cases.
17766700	Safety, tolerability, QTc evaluation, and pharmacokinetics of single and multiple doses of enzastaurin HCl (LY317615), a protein kinase C-beta inhibitor, in healthy subjects.	The safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of orally administered enzastaurin were evaluated in 2 placebo-controlled, dose escalation studies in healthy subjects. In the first human dose study, single doses (2-400 mg) were evaluated, with 22 subjects receiving enzastaurin. The mean half-lives of enzastaurin and its metabolites ranged from approximately 12 to 40 hours. The longer half-life of the major circulating and pharmacologically active metabolite allowed once-a-day dosing and predicted that steady state would be achieved within 2 weeks of daily oral dosing in all subjects. In the multiple-dose study, daily doses (25-400 mg) were examined, with 24 subjects receiving at least 1 dose. The most common adverse events related to enzastaurin were headache, sleepiness, diarrhea, and nausea. No clinically significant changes in QTc intervals were observed. Overall, enzastaurin was well tolerated in healthy subjects, and the planned maximum dose was achieved in both studies.
14765546	LC-MS-MS analysis of 2-pyridylacetic acid, a major metabolite of betahistine: application to a pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers.	1. A sensitive liquid chromatographic-tandem mas spectrometric assay was developed and validated to determine the major metabolite of betahistine, 2-pyridylacetic acid, in human plasma. 2. The analyte was extracted from plasma samples by liquid-liquid extraction and analysed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with an electrospray ionization interface. The method has a lower limit of quantitation of 1 ng ml(-1) fir a 0.5-ml plasma aliquot. The intra- and interday precision (relative standard deviation), calculated from quality control (QC) samples, was less than 10%. Accuracy as determined from QC samples was within +/-7%. 3. The validated method was successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study of betahistine in healthy volunteers. After oral administration of a single dose of 24 mg betahistine mesylate to 20 healthy Chinese male volunteers, Cmax was 339.4 ng ml(-1) (range 77.3-776.4 ng ml(-1)). The t(1/2) was 5.2 h (range 2.0(-1)-11.4h). The AUC(0-t) obtained was 1153.5 ng ml(-1) h (range 278.5-3150.8 ng ml(-1)). The disposition of the metabolite exhibited a marked interindividual variation. 4. The plasma concentrations of the parent drug were less than 0.5 ng ml(-1), suggesting that it undergoes almost complete first-pass metabolism. The reported two active metabolites were not detected in the plasma of any volunteer. Although there is no evidence that the major metabolite has pharmacological activity, the clinical importance of 2-pyridylacetic acid in humans should be reinvestigated.
19118567	Use of mRNA expression to detect the induction of drug metabolising enzymes in rat and human hepatocytes.	It is important to investigate the induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes by drugs. The most relevant end point is enzyme activity; however, this requires many cells and is low throughput. We have compared the CYP1A, CYP2B and CYP3A induction response to eight inducers in rat and human hepatocytes using enzyme activities (CYP1A2 (ethoxyresorufin), 2B (benzoxyresorufin for rat and bupropion for human) and CYP3A (testosterone)) and Taqman Low Density Array (TLDA) analysis. There was a good correlation between the induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 enzyme activities and mRNA expression in human hepatocytes. In contrast, BROD activities and mRNA expression in rat hepatocytes correlated poorly. However, bupropion hydroxylation correlated well with Cyp2b1 expression in rat hepatocytes. TLDA analysis of a panel of mRNAs encoding for CYPs, phase 2 enzymes, nuclear receptors and transporters revealed that the main genes induced by the 8 compounds tested were the CYPs. AhR ligands also induced UDP-glucuronosyltransferases and glutathione S-transferases in rat and human hepatocytes. The transporters, MDR1, MDR3 and OATPA were the only transporter genes significantly up-regulated in human hepatocytes. In rat hepatocytes Bsep, Mdr2, Mrp2, Mrp3 and Oatp2 were up-regulated. We could then show a good in vivo:in vitro correlation in the induction response of isolated rat hepatocytes and ex-vivo hepatic microsomes for the drug development candidate, EMD392949. In conclusion, application of TLDA methodology to investigate the potential of compounds to induce enzymes in rat and human hepatocytes increases the throughput and information gained from one assay, without reducing the predictive capacity.
21277363	Involvement of CYP3A4/5 and CYP2D6 in the metabolism of aconitine using human liver microsomes and recombinant CYP450 enzymes.	Aconitine (AC), a famous major Aconitum alkaloid, has effective antirheumatic function with high toxicity. The aim of our study was to in-depth investigate cytochrome P450 isozymes (CYPs) involved in aconitine metabolism in vitro. We used human liver microsomes (HLMs) as well as recombinant CYPs to investigate the metabolism pathways of aconitine by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Fluvoxamine maleate, gemfibrozil, amiodarone hydrochloride, omeprazole, quinidine, diethyldithiocarbamic acid and ketoconazole were successfully applied as test inhibitors for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19*1, CYP2D6*1, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4/5 in HLMs, respectively. Six CYP-mediated metabolites were found and characterized in human liver microsomes and eight recombinant CYP isoforms. The inhibitor of CYP 3A had a strong inhibitory effect, the inhibitors of CYP 2C9, 2C8 and CYP2D6 had little inhibitory effects, whereas CYP2C19, 1A2 and 2E1 had no obvious inhibitory effects on AC metabolism. Hydroxylation and di-demethylation of aconitine were conducted by human recombinant CYP 3A5 and 2D6, dehydrogenation was only processed by CYP3A4/5, and the main CYP isoforms metabolizing aconitine to demethyl-aconitine and N-deethyl-aconitine were CYP3A4/5 and CYP2D6. In conclusion, aconitine can be transformed into at least six CYP-mediated metabolites in HLMs, CYP 3A4/5 and 2D6 were the most important CYP isoforms responsible for the de-methylation, N-deethylation, dehydrogenation, and hydroxylation of aconitine.
20333384	Hyaluronan-Irinotecan improves progression-free survival in 5-fluorouracil refractory patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: a randomized phase II trial.	The objective of this study was to conduct a randomised phase II study in second-line metastatic colorectal cancer with the purpose of confirming preliminary clinical data indicating that the formulation of irinotecan with the drug carrier, hyaluronan (HA) reduced toxicity of the drug. Irinotecan-nave patients were randomized to receive either irinotecan (350 mg/m(2)) or HA-Irinotecan (HA 1,000 mg/m(2) and irinotecan at 350 mg/m(2)) every 3 weeks for a maximum of eight cycles. Seventy-six patients (41 HA-Irinotecan and 35 irinotecan-alone) were enrolled. There was no significant difference in any individual, or overall, grade 3 or 4 toxicity. There was a trend for increased diarrhea in the HA-Irinotecan-treated patients (20 versus 9%; P = 21), potentially explained by a disproportionate number of baseline toxicity-associated risk factors in this treatment group. The median number of cycles completed was six for HA-Irinotecan patients and two for irinotecan-alone patients (P = 0.005). When compared to the control arm, HA-Irinotecan patients had a significantly longer median progression-free survival of 5.2 versus 2.4 months (P = 0.017) and time to treatment failure (4 vs. 1.8 months; P = 0.007). Median overall survival was 10.1 months for HA-Irinotecan compared to 8.0 months for irinotecan patients (P = 0.196). Further studies are required to define the safety of the formulation of irinotecan with HA. While this study was not adequately powered to demonstrate survival differences, these phase II data indicated HA-Irinotecan to be a promising therapy demonstrating improved efficacy compared to irinotecan-alone.
14969553	Urinary and plasma levels of resveratrol and quercetin in humans, mice, and rats after ingestion of pure compounds and grape juice.	The present study investigates the bioavailability of resveratrol and quercetin in humans, mice, and rats after oral ingestion of grape juice preparations or pure aglycones. Oral administration of resveratrol and quercetin to humans yielded detectable levels of resveratrol, quercetin, and their derivatives in the plasma and urine. Urinary levels of resveratrol, quercetin, and their metabolites were observed in human subjects receiving 600 and 1200 mL of grape juice, whereas quercetin metabolites were identified in urine samples even after receiving 200 mL of grape juice. The cumulative amounts of resveratrol and quercetin excreted in the urine of mice receiving concentrated grape juice for 4 days were 2.3 and 0.7% of the ingested doses, respectively. After i.g. administration of resveratrol to rats (2 mg/kg), up to 1.2 microM resveratrol was observed in the plasma. The study demonstrates that the glycoside forms of resveratrol and quercetin in grape juice are absorbed to a lesser extent than the aglycones.
19628029	Correlation between environmental and biological monitoring of exposure to benzene in petrochemical industry operators.	The present work was aimed to study in petrochemical industry operators the correlation, if any, between environmental exposure to low levels of benzene and two biological exposure indexes in end-shift urine, i.e. trans, trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) and S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA). Exposure to benzene was assessed in 133 male subjects employed in outdoor operations in a petrochemical plant, using personal passive-diffusive air samplers worn at the breathing zone; adsorbed benzene was determined by GC-FID analysis. S-PMA was determined by a new HPLCMS/MS method, after (quantitative) acidic hydrolysis of the cysteine conjugate precursor. t,t-MA was measured by an HPLC-UV method. Smoking habits were assessed by means of a self-administered questionnaire. Both environmental and biological monitoring data showed that benzene exposure of petrochemical industry operators was low (mean values were 0.014ppm, 101mug/g creat, and 2.8mug/g creat, for benzene, t,t-MA, and S-PMA, respectively) if compared with the ACGIH limits. Cigarette smoking was confirmed to be a strong confounding factor for the urinary excretion of both metabolites: statistically significant increases of t,t-MA and S-PMA levels were recorded in smokers when compared to non-smokers (p<0.0001). The best correlation found was that between exposure to benzene and S-PMA levels, particularly in non-smokers. This was partly due to the hydrolysis of the S-PMA precursor N-acetyl-S-(1,2-dihydro-2-hydroxyphenyl)-l-cysteine, a crucial step of the new analytical method used, which indeed reduced the variability of the results by means of an improved standardization of this critical preanalytical factor. A weaker correlation was found between exposure to benzene and t,t-MA, possibly explained by the fact that the latter is also a metabolite of sorbic acid, a common diet component. In summary, even at such low levels of exposure, urinary metabolites proved to be a useful tool for assessing individual occupational exposure to benzene, S-PMA appearing to be a more specific biomarker than t,t-MA, particularly in non-smokers.
22989032	Insights into the novel hydrolytic mechanism of a diethyl 2-phenyl-2-(2-arylacetoxy)methyl malonate ester-based microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibitor.	Inhibition of intestinal and hepatic microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) is a potential strategy for the treatment of dyslipidemia and related metabolic disorders. Inhibition of hepatic MTP, however, results in elevated liver transaminases and increased hepatic fat deposition consistent with hepatic steatosis. Diethyl 2-((2-(3-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-4-(4'-(trifluoromethyl)-[1,1'-biphenyl]-2-ylcarboxamido)phenyl)acetoxy)methyl)-2-phenylmalonate (JTT-130) is an intestine-specific inhibitor of MTP and does not cause increases in transaminases in short-term clinical trials in patients with dyslipidemia. Selective inhibition of intestinal MTP is achieved via rapid hydrolysis of its ester linkage by liver-specific carboxylesterase(s), resulting in the formation of an inactive carboxylic acid metabolite 1. In the course of discovery efforts around tissue-specific inhibitors of MTP, the mechanism of JTT-130 hydrolysis was examined in detail. Lack of O incorporation in 1 following the incubation of JTT-130 in human liver microsomes in the presence of HO suggested that hydrolysis did not occur via a simple cleavage of the ester linkage. The characterization of atropic acid (2-phenylacrylic acid) as a metabolite was consistent with a hydrolytic pathway involving initial hydrolysis of one of the pendant malonate ethyl ester groups followed by decarboxylative fragmentation to 1 and the concomitant liberation of the potentially electrophilic acrylate species. Glutathione conjugates of atropic acid and its ethyl ester were also observed in microsomal incubations of JTT-130 that were supplemented with the thiol nucleophile. Additional support for the hydrolysis mechanism was obtained from analogous studies on diethyl 2-(2-(2-(3-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-4-(4'-trifluoromethyl)-[1,1'-biphenyl]-2-ylcarboxamido)phenyl)acetoxy)ethyl)-2-phenylmalonate (3), which cannot participate in hydrolysis via the fragmentation pathway because of the additional methylene group. Unlike the case with JTT-130, O was readily incorporated into 1 during the enzymatic hydrolysis of 3, suggestive of a mechanism involving direct hydrolytic cleavage of the ester group in 3. Finally, 3-(ethylamino)-2-(ethylcarbamoyl)-3-oxo-2-phenylpropyl 2-(3-(dimethylcarbamoyl)-4-(4'-(trifluoromethyl)-[1,1'-biphenyl]-2-ylcarboxamido)phenyl)acetate (4), which possessed an N,N-diethyl-2-phenylmalonamide substituent (in lieu of the diethyl-2-phenylmalonate motif in JTT-130) proved to be resistant to the hydrolytic cleavage/decarboxylative fragmentation pathway that yielded 1, a phenomenon that further confirmed our hypothesis. From a toxicological standpoint, it is noteworthy to point out that the liberation of the electrophilic acrylic acid species as a byproduct of JTT-130 hydrolysis is similar to the bioactivation mechanism established for felbamate, an anticonvulsant agent associated with idiosyncratic aplastic anemia and hepatotoxicity.
17620000	Population pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine and desethylamodiaquine in pediatric patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria.	The study aimed to characterize the population pharmacokinetics of amodiaquine (AQ) and its major metabolite N-desethylamodiaquine (N-DEAQ), and to assess the correlation between exposure to N-DEAQ and treatment outcome. Blood samples from children in two studies in Zanzibar and one in Papua New Guinea were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis (n = 86). The children had been treated with AQ in combination with artesunate or sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine. The population pharmacokinetics of AQ and N-DEAQ were modeled using the non-linear mixed effects approach as implemented in NONMEM. Bayesian post-hoc estimates of individual pharmacokinetic parameters were used to generate individual profiles of N-DEAQ exposure. The correlation between N-DEAQ exposure and effect was studied in 212 patients and modeled with logistic regression in NONMEM. The pharmacokinetics of AQ and N-DEAQ were best described by two parallel two-compartment models with a central and a peripheral compartment for each compound. The systemic exposure to AQ was low in comparison to N-DEAQ. The t(1/2 lambda) of N-DEAQ ranged from 3 days to 12 days. There was a statistically significant, yet weak, association between N-DEAQ concentration on day 7 and treatment outcome. The age-based dosing schedule currently recommended in Zanzibar appeared to result in inadequate exposure to N-DEAQ in many patients.
19523935	Metabolism of carbosulfan. I. Species differences in the in vitro biotransformation by mammalian hepatic microsomes including human.	The in vitro metabolism of carbosulfan, a widely used carbamate insecticide, by hepatic microsomes from human, rat, mouse, dog, rabbit, minipig, and monkey was studied. Altogether eight (8) phase I metabolites were detected by LC-MS; phase II metabolites were not found in human homogenates fortified with appropriate cofactors. The primary metabolic pathways were the initial oxidation of sulfur to carbosulfan sulfinamide ('sulfur oxidation pathway') and the cleavage of the nitrogen sulfur bond (N-S) to give carbofuran and dibutylamine ('carbofuran pathway'). Carbofuran was further hydroxylated to 3-hydroxycarbofuran and/or 7-phenolcarbofuran, which were further oxidized to 3-ketocarbofuran or 3-hydroxy-7-phenolcarbofuran, respectively, and finally to 3-keto-7-phenolcarbofuran. 3-Hydroxycarbofuran was the main metabolite in all species, but otherwise there were some qualitative interspecies differences in carbofuran pathway metabolites. Only rabbit liver microsomes were able to metabolize carbofuran via hydroxylation to 7-phenolcarbofuran. Carbofuran was not detected in dog liver microsomes due to rapid further metabolism. In general, liver microsomes from all seven species produced more toxic products (carbofuran, 3-hydroxy-carbofuran, 3-ketocarbofuran) more rapidly than a detoxification product (carbosulfan sulfinamide). Differences in intrinsic hepatic clearances (CL(int)) between the lowest and highest species were moderate; 2-fold for the carbofuran pathway, 2.7-fold for carbosulfan sulfinamide and 6.2-fold for dibutylamine. Our studies, although restricted to in vitro metabolic data from human and animal hepatic preparations, provide valuable quantitative carbosulfan-specific data for risk assessment, which suggest that interspecies differences, for carbosulfan active chemical moiety, in toxicokinetics are within the standard applied factor for species extrapolation in toxicokinetics. These results will be valuable in further defining the risks associated with exposure to carbosulfan.
20811346	Potential for pharmacokinetic interactions between ambrisentan and cyclosporine.	Ambrisentan (ABS), approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension and administered as an oral dose once daily, is an ET(A)-selective endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) and a potential substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, organic anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP), and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Cyclosporin A (CsA), an inhibitor of CYP3A4, P-gp, and OATP, may be used concomitantly with ABS. In this open-label, parallel-treatment study, 28 healthy subjects received steady-state ABS (5 mg q.d.) either alone or with steady-state CsA (100-150 mg b.i.d.), and 24 other subjects received steady-state CsA either alone or with steady-state ABS. In the presence of CsA, ABS maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) increased 1.5-fold, and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC)(0-) increased twofold. Marginal increases were observed for CsA C(max) (906 vs. 1,014 ng/ml) and AUC(0-) (3.05 vs. 3.37 gh/ml) in the presence of ABS. Frequent adverse events (AEs) were headache and gastrointestinal disorders. The addition of ABS to steady-state CsA appeared less tolerable as compared with the addition of CsA to steady-state ABS. A maximum ABS dose of 5 mg is recommended if it is coadministered with CsA. No change in CsA dose is recommended if it is coadministered with ABS.
17345062	Phosphylated tyrosine in albumin as a biomarker of exposure to organophosphorus nerve agents.	The organophosphorus nerve agents sarin, soman, cyclosarin and tabun phosphylate a tyrosine residue on albumin in human blood. These adducts may offer relatively long-lived biological markers of nerve agent exposure that do not 'age' rapidly, and which are not degraded by therapy with oximes. Sensitive methods for the detection of these adducts have been developed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Adducts of all four nerve agents were detected in the blood of exposed guinea pigs being used in studies to improve medical countermeasures. The tyrosine adducts with soman and tabun were detected in guinea pigs receiving therapy 7 days following subcutaneous administration of five times the LD(50) dose of the respective nerve agent. VX also forms a tyrosine adduct in human blood in vitro but only at high concentrations.
20595377	In vitro metabolism studies of nomifensine monooxygenation pathways: metabolite identification, reaction phenotyping, and bioactivation mechanism.	Multiple GSH adducts of the oxidative products of nomifensine (M1-M9) in human hepatocytes and liver microsomes have been identified recently. The current study reports three new types of monooxygenated metabolites of nomifensine identified in human liver microsomes: C-linked hydroxylated metabolites with modifications at the A ring (H1 and H4), an N-hydroxylamine (H6), and nomifensine N-oxides (H7 and H8). GSH conjugate formation in incubates containing cDNA-expressed P450s and GSH suggests that nomifensine GSH-sulfinamides (M1 and M2) are formed through the reaction between GSH and the oxidative product of H6. C-linked GSH conjugates M3, M4, M5, and M6 are probably formed via nomifensine benzoquinone imine intermediates via H4 and/or nomifensine epoxides. C-linked GSH conjugates M7, M8, and M9 are probably formed through similar mechanisms via H1. Nomifensine N-oxides do not form reactive metabolites that react with GSH. In vitro metabolism studies using a panel of cDNA-expressed human P450 and flavin monooxygenase (FMO) isoforms (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, FMO1, FMO3, and FMO5) indicated that CYP3A4, CYP2C19, and CYP2B6 generate the largest quantities of H1, H4, and H6, respectively. H7 and H8 are formed almost exclusively by FMOs. The contribution of the individual P450s involved in the formation of H1, H4, and H6 in human liver microsomes was confirmed by the inhibition of product formation by monoclonal anti-cytochrome 450 antibodies. These results showed that CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 contributed primarily to the formation of H1 and H6, respectively. CYP2C19 and CYP1A2 seemed to contribute significantly to the formation of H4.
11550824	Identification and quantitation of 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin-9-carboxylic acid, a major metabolite of delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin.	After incubation of delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin with human hepatocytes, a major metabolic product was detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry that showed identical retention time and mass spectrum to the synthetic 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabivarin-9-carboxylic acid (11-nor-delta9-THCV-9-COOH). Analysis of human urine specimens from marijuana users and plasma samples from Marinol users showed that 11-nor-delta9-THCV-9-COOH was only present in urine specimens of marijuana users. These results supported the conclusion that identification of 11-nor-delta9-THCV-9-COOH in a donor's urine specimen indicates the use or ingestion of cannabis-related product(s) and would not explain the sole use of Marinol.
21530565	Detection of new urinary exemestane metabolites by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry.	Exemestane is an aromatase enzyme complex inhibitor. Its metabolism in humans is not fully described and there is only one known metabolite: 17-hydroxyexemestane. In this work, excretion studies were performed with four volunteers aiming at the detection of new exemestane metabolites in human urine by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) after enzymatic hydrolysis and liquid-liquid extraction. Urine samples collected from four volunteers were analyzed separately. The targets of the study were mainly the 6-exomethylene oxidized metabolites. Two unreported metabolites were identified in both free and glucuconjugated urine fractions from all four volunteers, both of them were the result of the 6-exomethylene moiety oxidation: 6-hydroxy-6-hydroxymethylandrosta-1,4-diene-3,17-dione (metabolite 1) and 6-hydroxyandrosta-1,4-diene-3,17-dione (metabolite 2). Furthermore, only in glucoconjugated fractions from all volunteers, one metabolite arising from the A-ring reduction was identified as well, 3-hydroxy-5-androst-1-ene-6-methylene-17-one (metabolite 3). The molecular formulae of all these metabolites were ascertained by the determination of exact masses using gas chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry (GC-HRMS). Moreover, all metabolites were confirmed using an alternative derivatization with methoxyamine and MSTFA/TMS-imidazole.
16914511	Innovative methods to study human intestinal drug metabolism in vitro: precision-cut slices compared with ussing chamber preparations.	Predictive in vitro methods to investigate drug metabolism in the human intestine using intact tissue are of high importance. Therefore, we studied the metabolic activity of human small intestinal and colon slices and compared it with the metabolic activity of the same human intestinal segments using the Ussing chamber technique. The metabolic activity was evaluated using substrates to both phase I and phase II reactions: testosterone, 7-hydroxycoumarin (7HC), and a mixture of cytochrome P450 (P450) substrates (midazolam, diclofenac, coumarin, and bufuralol). In slices of human proximal jejunum, the metabolic activity of several P450-mediated and conjugation reactions remained constant up to4hof incubation. In the colon slices, conjugation rates were virtually equal to those in small intestine, whereas P450-mediated conversions occurred much slower. In both organs, morphological evaluation and ATP content implied tissue integrity within this period. P450 conversions using the Ussing chamber technique showed that the metabolic rate (sum of metabolites measured in apical, basolateral, and tissue compartments) was constant up to 3 h. For 7HC conjugations, the metabolic rate remained constant up to 4 h. The distribution of the metabolites in the compartments differed between the substrates. Overall, metabolic rates were surprisingly similar in both techniques and appear similar to or even higher than in liver. In conclusion, this study shows that both human intestinal precision-cut slices and Ussing chamber preparations provide useful tools for in vitro biotransformation studies.
18544218	Effect of tramadol use on three point-of-care and one instrument-based immunoassays for urine buprenorphine.	We report that use of the popular analgesic tramadol can cause false-positive urine buprenorphine results. We examined the extent of tramadol cross-reactivity in three point-of-care urine buprenorphine immunoassays (ACON, QuikStrip, and ABMC) and an instrument-based one (Cedia). We tested 29 urine samples from patients known to be taking tramadol. Ten different samples tested positive for urine buprenorphine by at least one immunoassay. Samples with positive buprenorphine screens by immunoassay were tested for total buprenorphine and total norbuprenorphine content by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS), which confirmed that seven of the 10 positive samples were false-positives. The remaining three positive immunoassay samples had insufficient quantity for LC-MS-MS testing. No false-positives were detected with the ACON (10 ng/mL calibration cutoff) or the Cedia assay (using a 20 ng/mL calibration cutoff). All four false-positive Cedia results (using a 5 ng/mL cutoff) in this study tested negative using the ACON device. Our data suggest that tramadol use can cause false-positive urine buprenorphine immunoassays, and this effect appears to be assay-dependent. Tramadol interference with the Cedia assay is clinically relevant, especially if the 5 ng/mL calibration cutoff is used.
19812350	In vitro metabolism of haloperidol and sila-haloperidol: new metabolic pathways resulting from carbon/silicon exchange.	The neurotoxic side effects observed for the neuroleptic agent haloperidol have been associated with its pyridinium metabolite. In a previous study, a silicon analog of haloperidol (sila-haloperidol) was synthesized, which contains a silicon atom instead of the carbon atom in the 4-position of the piperidine ring. In the present study, the phase I metabolism of sila-haloperidol and haloperidol was studied in rat and human liver microsomes. The phase II metabolism was studied in rat, dog, and human hepatocytes and also in liver microsomes supplemented with UDP-glucuronic acid (UDPGA). A major metabolite of haloperidol, the pyridinium metabolite, was not formed in the microsomal incubations with sila-haloperidol. For sila-haloperidol, three metabolites originating from opening of the piperidine ring were observed, a mechanism that has not been observed for haloperidol. One of the significant phase II metabolites of haloperidol was the glucuronide of the hydroxy group bound to the piperidine ring. For sila-haloperidol, the analogous metabolite was not observed in the hepatocytes or in the liver microsomal incubations containing UDPGA. If silanol (SiOH) groups are not glucuronidated, introducing silanol groups in drug molecules could provide an opportunity to enhance the hydrophilicity without allowing for direct phase II metabolism. To provide further support for the observed differences in metabolic pathways between haloperidol and sila-haloperidol, the metabolism of another pair of C/Si analogs was studied, namely, trifluperidol and sila-trifluperidol. These studies showed the same differences in metabolic pathways as between sila-haloperidol and haloperidol.
22100559	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of tiapride and its phase I metabolite in blood plasma using tandem UV photodiode-array and fluorescence detection.	New bioanalytical SPE-HPLC-PDA-FL method for the determination of the neuroleptic drug tiapride and its N-desethyl metabolite was developed, validated and applied to xenobiochemical and pharmacokinetic studies in humans and animals. The sample preparation process involved solid-phase extraction of diluted plasma spiked with sulpiride (an internal standard) using SPE cartridges DSC-PH Supelco, USA. Chromatographic separation of the extracts was performed on a Discovery HS F5 250 mm  4 mm (Supelco) column containing pentafluorophenylpropylsilyl silica gel. Mobile phase (acetonitrile-0.01 M phosphate buffer pH=3, flow rate 1 ml min(-1)) in the gradient mode was employed in the HPLC analysis. Tandem UV photodiode-arrayfluorescence detection was used for the determination of the analytes. Low concentrations of tiapride and N-desethyl tiapride were determined using a more selective fluorescence detector ((exc.)/(emiss.)=232 nm/334 nm), high concentrations (500-6000 pmol ml(-1)) using a UV PDA detector at 212 nm with a linear response. Each HPLC run lasted 15 min. Lower limits of quantification (LLOQ) for tiapride (N-desethyl tiapride) were found to be 8.24 pmol ml(-1) (10.11 pmol ml(-1)). The recoveries of tiapride ranged from 89.3 to 94.3%, 81.7 to 86.8% for internal standard sulpiride and 90.9 to 91.8% for N-desethyl tiapride.
11881981	Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics, kidney tolerability and plasma protein binding of tenoxicam in renally impaired patients and healthy volunteers.	The 20 mg single-dose and 12 days repeated-dose pharmacokinetics of tenoxicam and the 5-OH-tenoxicam metabolite have been evaluated in healthy volunteers and two groups of patients with different degree of renal impairment, in total 20 persons. Concomitantly, the plasma protein binding of tenoxicam and the effects of treatment on renal function were evaluated. No differences were found between the investigated groups in the pharmacokinetics of total tenoxicam and the 5-OH metabolite did not interfere either with the pharmacokinetics or with the plasma protein binding of tenoxicam. A positive correlation was found between an increase in the free fraction (% F) of tenoxicam in plasma and a decrease in the plasma elimination half-life in the low creatinine clearance group (40-20 ml/min.) both after the single-dose and at steady-state. At steady-state, a non-linear correlation was demonstrated between a decrease in the urinary excretion of the 5-OH metabolite and a decrease in creatinine clearance from 130 to 20 ml/min. An increase in the plasma level of the 5-OH metabolite by three times was found in the low creatinine clearance group as compared to healthy subjects. 14C-Impurities of tenoxicam, as low as 1.2%, were shown to greatly influence the determination of the plasma protein binding (equilibrium dialysis) of the highly protein-bound tenoxicam due to a non-binding ability of the impurities to plasma proteins. No significant changes in renal parameters were found during the study. It can be concluded that the pharmacokinetics and plasma protein binding of tenoxicam and the pharmacokinetics of the 5-OH-tenoxicam metabolite are increasingly changed in subjects with a creatinine clearance below 40 ml/min. A decreased binding of tenoxicam to plasma proteins in low clearance patients is probably the reason for a faster elimination of tenoxicam in this group rather than a higher intrinsic hepatic metabolic activity. This study conducted in a low number of patients did not bring forward any new data indicating any adverse effects of tenoxicam on renal function.
20138526	S-Arachidonoyl-2-thioglycerol synthesis and use for fluorimetric and colorimetric assays of monoacylglycerol lipase.	We report the first synthesis of 2-thioglycerol and S-arachidonoyl-2-thioglycerol (the thioester analog of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol) in an eight or nine step procedure with a yield of approximately 25% and establish the use of this substrate for maleimide-based fluorescent and dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid)-based colorimetric assays of human recombinant monoacylglycerol (MAG) lipase (hMAGL) and human brain membrane MAG hydrolase activity. Inhibitor structure-activity relationships observed here for hMAGL and 2-ATG correlate well (r(2)=0.93, n=9) with earlier findings for mouse brain MAG hydrolase with non-thiol substrates.
15149612	Monitoring of urinary acrolein concentration in patients receiving cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide.	Acrolein, the metabolite of cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide, irritates mucous membranes and is considered pathogenetically important in hemorrhagic cystitis. Increasing fluid intake or administering sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna), a thiol compound, can reduce the risk of this complication. We measured urinary acrolein concentrations using headspace-solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography and mass spectrometry (headspace-SPME-GC-MS) in 19 patients receiving cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide (36 occasions). Peak acrolein concentrations occurred at 1-12h (mean +/- S.D., 5.0+/-2.7) after starting therapy, ranging from 0.3 to 406.8 nM (39.7+/-76.7), with varying patterns over time. Maintaining high urine volume was important for preventing increases in urinary acrolein concentration, as urinary acrolein concentration tended to rise as urine volume decreased. Urinalysis detected occult blood in three cases, but the patients had no clinical symptoms of hemorrhagic cystitis. In clinical trials involving cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide, monitoring of urinary acrolein concentration could indicate when to take heightened preventive measures against hemorrhagic cystitis.
22237256	Oral flurbiprofen metabolic ratio assessment using a single-point dried blood spot.	We investigated whether a single blood measurement using the minimally invasive technique of a finger prick to draw a blood sample of 5l (to yield a dried blood spot (DBS)) is suitable for the assessment of flurbiprofen (FLB) metabolic ratio (MR). Ten healthy volunteers who had been genotyped for CYP2C9 were recruited as subjects. They received FLB alone in session 1 and FLB with fluconazole in session 2. In session 3, the subjects were pretreated for 4 days with rifampicin and received FLB with the last dose of rifampicin on day 5. Plasma and DBS samples were obtained between 0 and 8 h after FLB administration, and urine was collected during the 8 h after administration. The pharmacokinetic profiles of the drugs were comparable in DBS and plasma. FLB's apparent clearance values decreased by 35% in plasma and DBS during session 2 and increased by 75% in plasma and by 30% in DBS during session 3. Good correlations were observed between MRs calculated from urine, plasma, and DBS samples.
19697924	Characterization of cytochrome P450-mediated bioactivation of a compound containing the chemical scaffold, 4,5-dihydropyrazole-1-carboxylic acid-(4-chlorophenyl amide), to a chemically reactive p-chlorophenyl isocyanate intermediate in human liver microsomes.	Compound A (Cmpd A) was previously reported to form p-chlorophenyl isocyanate (CPIC), which was trapped by GSH to yield S- (N- [p-chlorophenyl] carbamoyl) glutathione adduct (SCPG) in the presence of human liver microsomes. In this study, P450 3A4 and 2C9 were demonstrated to be the enzymes mediating the activation of Cmpd A to CPIC in human liver microsomes based on inhibitory and correlation studies. Enzyme kinetics studies indicated that P450 3A4 was the primary enzyme involved in the activation of Cmpd A. In silico P450 3A4 active site docking of Cmpd A exhibited a low energy pose that orientated the pyrazole ring proximate to the heme iron atom, in which the distance between the C-3 and potential activated oxygen species was shown to be 3.4 A. Quantum molecular calculations showed that the electron density on C-3 was relatively higher than those on C-4 and C-5. These measurements suggested that the C-3 of Cmpd A was the preferred site of oxidation and hence predisposed Cmpd A in forming CPIC as previously proposed. The in silico prediction was corroborated by studies with the C-3 substituted analogue (methyl at C-3), which showed minimal conversion to CPIC in human liver microsomes. These results demonstrated a pivotal role for P450 3A4 in bioactivating Cmpd A by oxidizing at C-3 of the pyrazoline, hence facilitating the CPIC formation. Evidence of the bioactivation to CPIC in vivo was obtained by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS) analysis of urine samples from human subjects administered a structural analogue of Cmpd A. The presence of S-(N-[p-chlorophenyl] carbamoyl) N-acetyl l-cysteine (SCPAC) as well as p-chlorophenyl aniline (CPA) was unequivocally demonstrated in the urine samples. The chemical scaffold, 4,5-dihydropyrazole-1-carboxylic acid-[(4-chlorophenyl)-amide], was demonstrated to possess potential metabolic liability in forming a reactive intermediate, CPIC, in humans. Bioactivation to CPIC may cause undesirable side effects through its reactivity and subsequent conversion to CPA, an established rodent carcinogen.
23973630	Analysis of 21-hydroxy deflazacort in human plasma by UPLC-MS/MS: application to a bioequivalence study in healthy volunteers.	A sensitive and rapid ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (UPLC-MS/MS) method has been developed for the determination of 21-hydroxy deflazacort in human plasma using betamethasone as the internal standard (IS). After solid-phase extraction from 100 L human plasma, the analyte and IS were analyzed on Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18 (50 mm  2.1 mm, 1.7 m) column using acetonitrile-4.0mM ammonium formate, pH 3.5 (90:10, v/v) as the mobile phase. The protonated analyte was quantified by selected reaction monitoring in the positive ionization mode by triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. The calibration plots were linear over the concentration range 0.50-500 ng/mL. Intra-batch and inter-batch precision (% CV) and accuracy (%) for five quality control samples ranged within 1.40-4.82% and 98.0-102.0% respectively. The overall mean extraction recovery of 21-hydroxy deflazacort from plasma ranged from 95.3 to 97.3%. Matrix effect was assessed by post-column analyte infusion and the extraction recovery was >95.0% across four quality control levels for the analyte and IS. Stability was evaluated under different conditions like bench top, autosampler, processed sample (at room temperature and in cooling chamber), freeze-thaw and long term stability. The method was applied to support a bioequivalence study of 30 mg deflazacort tablet formulation in 28 healthy subjects. Assay reproducibility was demonstrated by reanalysis of 115 incurred samples.
2905706	Identification and differentiation of alkylamine antihistamines and their metabolites in urine by computerized gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric screening procedure is described for the identification and differentiation of the following alkylamine antihistamines and their metabolites in urine: azatadine, benzquinamide, brompheniramine, chlorphenamine, (clofedanol), cyproheptadine, dimetindene, ketotifen, mebhydroline, phenindamine, pheniramine, pyrrobutamine, terfenadine and tolpropamine. After acid hydrolysis of the conjugates, extraction and acetylation, the urine samples were analysed by computerized gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Using ion chromatography with the selective ions m/z 58, 169, 203, 205, 230, 233, 262 and 337, the presence of alkylamine antihistamines and/or their metabolites was indicated. The identity of positive signals in the reconstructed ion chromatograms was confirmed by a visual or computerized comparison of the stored full mass spectra with the reference spectra. The ion chromatograms, reference mass spectra and gas chromatographic retention indices (OV-101) are documented. The procedure presented is integrated in a general screening procedure (general unknown analysis) for several groups of drugs.
21622627	In vitro metabolism of the mycotoxin enniatin B in different species and cytochrome p450 enzyme phenotyping by chemical inhibitors.	Enniatins are cyclic hexapeptidic mycotoxins produced by fungi growing on field grains, especially in wet climates. They show considerable resistance to food and feed processing technologies and might cause intoxication of humans and animals. Enniatins are also under exploration as anticancer drugs. The observed difference of in vitro and in vivo toxicities suggests low absorption or fast elimination of the enniatins after oral uptake. In the study presented here, in vitro metabolism studies of enniatin B were performed using rat, dog, and human liver microsomes under conditions of linear kinetics to estimate the respective elimination rates. Furthermore, cytochrome P450 reaction phenotyping with chemical inhibitors selective for human enzymes was carried out. Twelve metabolites were separated and characterized by multiple high-performance liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric analyses as products of oxidation and demethylation reactions. Biotransformation rates and metabolite patterns varied considerably in the three species. The intrinsic clearances determined in assays with rat, dog, and human liver microsomes were 1.16, 8.23, and 1.13 l/(h  kg), respectively. The predicted enniatin B in vivo blood clearances were 1.57 l/(h  kg) in rats, 1.67 l/(h  kg) in dogs, and 0.63 l/(h  kg) in humans. CYP3A4 was important for enniatin B metabolism in human microsomes as shown by 80% inhibition and impaired metabolite formation in the presence of troleandomycin. CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 were additionally involved. Preliminary results showed that CYP3A and CYP1A might also be relevant in rats and dogs. The extensive hepatic metabolism could explain the reduced in vivo potential of enniatin B.
17356822	Comparison of pharmacokinetic and metabolic profiling among gossypol, apogossypol and apogossypol hexaacetate.	To characterize the stability, pharmacokinetics and metabolism of analogs of gossypol, apogossypol and apogossypol hexaacetate to provide a basis for comparison. Gossypol, apogossypol and apogossypol hexaacetate were incubated in plasma or liver microsomes from various species, or administered to mice, respectively, from which the stability, metabolism and pharmacokinetic profiles of these analogs were quantitatively determined using a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method. In various species of plasma, apogossypol and gossypol exhibited similar stability, while 20-40% of apogossypol hexaacetate was converted into apogossypol with concurrent formation of the corresponding di-, tri-, tetra-, and penta-acetates of apogossypol. (+/-)-Gossypol and (-)-gossypol showed comparable pharmacokinetic profile and oral bioavailability (12.2-17.6%) with some variations of clearance and V (ss) following oral and intravenous administration to mice. At the same molar dose, apogossypol showed delayed T (max)(1 h), a slower clearance rate and less distribution after administration to mice. Mono- and di-glucuronide conjugates of apogossypol were readily observed in mouse plasma following administration. Apogossypol formulated in sesame oil appeared to possess larger AUC and thus higher oral bioavailability than that formulated in cremophor EL:ethanol:saline. In contrast, intravenous apogossypol hexaacetate exhibited highest clearance rate partially due to its conversion into apogossypol. Concomitant with disappearance of apogossypol hexaacetate (iv), apogossypol converted from apogossypol hexaacetate was quantitatively detected, and accounted for approximately 30% of total plasma apogossypol hexaacetate. Oral apogossypol hexaacetate showed no bioavailability with little apogossypol occurring in the plasma. In human and mouse liver microsomes, glucuronide conjugates of apogossypol and its acetates were readily identified with the exception of gossypol glucuronidation. Apogossypol appeared more stable in human and mouse liver microsomal preparations than gossypol and apogossypol hexaacetate. Apogossypol and gossypol show similar oral and intravenous pharmacokinetic profiles and in vitro stability although apogossypol appears to have a slower clearance rate, larger AUC, and better microsomal stability. Apogossypol hexaacetate converts to apogossypol in both in vitro and in vivo settings and lacks any quantifiable oral bioavailability.
15761113	UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A6 pharmacogenetics: II. Functional impact of the three most common nonsynonymous UGT1A6 polymorphisms (S7A, T181A, and R184S).	The objective of this study was to use recombinant enzymes and human liver microsomes (HLMs) to comprehensively evaluate the functional impact of the three most common nonsynonymous polymorphisms (S7A, T181A, and R184S) identified in the human UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A6 gene. In addition to the known allozymes, other possible amino acid variants were expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK)293 cells to enable structure-function analysis. Initial studies using different substrates (serotonin, 5-hydroxytryptophol, 4-nitrophenol, acetaminophen, and valproic acid) showed similar results with 2-fold higher glucuronidation by UGT1A6(*)2 (S7A/T181A/R184S) compared with UGT1A6(*)1 (reference), and intermediate activities for other variants. Enzyme kinetic analyses with the UGT1A6-specific substrate (serotonin) showed 50% lower K(m) values for all R184S variants and 2-fold higher V(max) values for both S7A/T181A variants compared with UGT1A6(*)1. Furthermore, intrinsic clearance (V(max)/K(m)) values were highest for the UGT1A6(*)2 allozyme (2.3-fold over UGT1A6(*)1), resulting from additive effects of higher enzyme affinity and activity. As expected, K(m) values of (*)1/(*)1 genotyped HLMs (5.4 +/- 0.2 mM) were similar to recombinant UGT1A6(*)1 (5.8 +/- 0.6 mM). Conversely, (*)2/(*)2 HLMs showed higher K(m) values (7.0 +/- 0.3 mM) rather than the lower K(m) values displayed by recombinant UGT1A6(*)2 (3.6 +/- 0.3 mM), suggesting that this allozyme may display different enzyme kinetic behavior in HLMs compared with HEK293 cells. At best, these polymorphisms were predicted to account for 15 to 20% of the observed 13-fold variability in glucuronidation of UGT1A6 substrates by HLMs, indicating that there are likely other genetic or environmental factors responsible for the majority of this variation.
8914833	Effects of caloric restriction on expression of testicular cytochrome P450 enzymes associated with the metabolic activation of carcinogens.	Previous work demonstrated that microsomal cytochrome P4502A1 (CYP2A1) is expressed in rat testicular Leydig cells. The present study investigates the effects of diet, age, and strain on rat testicular CYP2A1 expression and assesses the potential role of testicular CYP2A1 in the metabolic activation of carcinogens. In ad libitum-fed 18-week-old Fischer 344 rats, testicular CYP2A1 immunoreactive protein and testosterone 7alpha-hydroxylase activity (7alpha-TOHase) exhibited a circadian variation with a daytime maximum and a night-time minimum (82.2 +/- 42.0 and 21.9 +/- 4.5 pmol 7alpha-hydroxytestosterone/min/mg protein, respectively). Caloric restriction (to 60% of ad libitum consumption), which reduces the severity of Leydig cell tumors in rats, decreased expression of both CYP2A1 and testicular 7alpha-TOHase >80% and eliminated their circadian variation. Conversely, caloric restriction induced a circadian rhythm in testicular 7-benzyloxyresorufin-O-dealkylase activity. Testicular microsomes from ad libitum-fed rats having peak diurnal 7alpha-TOHase activity had significantly greater (30%) microsome-mediated aflatoxin B1-DNA binding activity compared to microsomes prepared from nocturnal phase ad libitum-fed or calorically restricted rats which expressed low 7alpha-TOHase activity. In 12-month-old Fischer 344 rats, high CYP2A1 expression was correlated with severe Leydig cell hyperplasia (r = 0.80), whereas CYP2A immunoreactive protein and 7alpha-TOHase were expressed at lower levels in Sprague-Dawley than in Fischer 344 rats and were undetectable in pig, monkey, and human testes. These are strains/species that do not exhibit significant Leydig cell hyperplasia. This suggests that caloric intake, strain, and circadian factors may all mediate testicular CYP2A1 expression in the rat and that CYP2A1 may in turn influence carcinogen activation and pathological status in the testis.
16211365	Phase I study of vinflunine administered as a 10-minute infusion on days 1 and 8 every 3 weeks.	Vinflunine is a novel vinca alkaloid developed through the selective modification of vinorelbine using super-acidic chemistry. In preclinical testing, vinflunine demonstrated significantly enhanced anti-tumour activity in human tumour xenograft models when compared to its parent compound. A phase I study was conducted to evaluate the safety and toxicity of vinflunine administered as a 10 minute intravenous infusion on days 1 and 8 every three weeks. Sixteen patients with advanced solid tumours were treated. Two of four patients experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLT) at 190 mg/m2 and this was established as the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). At the MTD, the DLT of vinflunine consisted of constipation and neutropenia. Fatigue was notable but not dose limiting. No objective responses were observed. A dose of 170 mg/m2 given on a day 1 and 8 schedule every three weeks would be suitable for future studies.
19904538	Phase I clinical trial to determine maximum tolerated dose of oral albendazole in patients with advanced cancer.	Albendazole is a potential anticancer agent that is currently under development for the treatment of cancer. We carried out a dose-finding phase I study of oral albendazole in patients with advanced malignancies. Thirty-six patients with refractory solid tumors were enrolled. Albendazole was given orally on a day 1-14 of a 3 weekly cycle, starting at 400 mg BD with dose escalation until 1,200 mg BD. Serial blood samples were collected up to 96 h and also on day 8 of cycles 1 and 4. The maximum tolerated dose was 2,400 mg per day (1,200 BD). Myelosuppression was the main dose limiting toxicity. Fatigue and mild gastrointestinal upset were the other major adverse effects. 4 out of 24 assessable patients (16%) had a tumor marker response with a fall of at least 50% from baseline values and another patient had a prolonged period of stable marker response. A decline in plasma vascular endothelial growth factor levels was observed. Albendazole was well tolerated on the schedule tested in this trial. The results of this study suggest that the recommended dose for further study is 1,200 mg twice daily for 14 days in a 21-day cycle.
2394062	Pharmacokinetics and neuromuscular blocking effects of atracurium besylate and two of its metabolites in patients with normal and impaired renal function.	The pharmacokinetics of atracurium, laudanosine and the quaternary alcohol were studied in patients with normal and impaired renal function following intravenous administration of atracurium. Anaesthesia consisted of thiopental, fentanyl, halothane and nitrous oxide in oxygen. Plasma and urine concentrations of the parent compound and its degradation products were measured by high performance liquid chromatography. Renal failure was defined as a creatinine clearance of less than 5 ml/min; it caused no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of atracurium but did result in a different pharmacokinetic profile of laudanosine, with a 3-fold increase in the mean ( +/- SD) terminal half-life (176 +/- 84 and 516 +/- 262 minutes for patients with normal and impaired renal function, respectively). Moreover, the half-life of the quaternary alcohol increased from 27.1 +/- 8.3 minutes in patients with normal renal function to 42.5 +/- 8.3 minutes in those with impaired renal function (mean +/- SD). Renal elimination of unchanged atracurium accounted for 11% of the administered dose and at least 27% of the total degradation of atracurium occurred via ester hydrolysis. The neuromuscular function was monitored by measuring the twitch tension of the adductor pollicis muscle elicited by stimulation of the ulnar nerve at 0.1 Hz. The total duration of neuromuscular blockade (51.8 +/- 11.5 minutes) and the recovery index (9.6 +/- 2.0 minutes) are shortened in patients with impaired renal function, compared with those with normal renal function (64.1 +/- 7.2 and 16.7 +/- 4.1 minutes, respectively), indicating that sensitivity to the neuromuscular blocking action of atracurium may be altered by renal failure.
22699395	Preclinical evaluation of the metabolism and disposition of RRx-001, a novel investigative anticancer agent.	RRx-001 has shown promise as a novel cancer therapeutic agent. The disposition of RRx-001 was evaluated in vitro and after intravenous administration to rats. At both 24 and 168 h after a single intravenous administration of C-RRx-001 (10 mg/kg), the majority of radiolabel was in the blood. The recovery of label in excreta was quite low, but the major route of radiolabel excretion was via the kidney, with approximately 26% in the urine by the first 8 h and decreasing amounts in all subsequent collections to a total of 36.3% by 168 h. The partitioning of total radioactivity in red blood cells (RBCs) and plasma was determined after in vitro addition to human, rat, dog, and monkey whole blood at 1 and 20 M. In rat, at 30 min, approximately 75% of the radioactivity is associated with RBCs and 25% with plasma. In human, at 30 min, approximately 25% of the radioactivity is associated with RBCs and 75% with plasma. Analysis by liquid chromatography/radiodetection/mass spectrometry showed that C-RRx-001 reacted rapidly with whole blood to give four major soluble metabolites: the GSH and Cys adducts of RRx-001 (M1 and M2) and the corresponding mononitro GSH and Cys adducts (M3 and M4). Human Hb was incubated with cold RRx-001 in buffer, and a standard proteomics protocol was used to separate and identify the tryptic peptides. Standard peptide collision-induced fragment ions supported the structure of the peptide GTFATLSELHCDK with the alkylation on the Cys-93 locus of the Hb  chain.
15840509	High-performance liquid chromatography method for determination of N-glucuronidation of 4-aminobiphenyl by mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes.	A simple and sensitive method for determination of the N-glucuronidation activity of mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes toward the carcinogenic arylamine 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) using high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection has been developed. The method uses chemically synthesized 4-ABP-N-glucuronide (4-ABP-G) as a standard for method validation. Validation was done with respect to specificity, linearity, precision, accuracy, and lower limits of detection. The method was specific since there were no interference peaks from the reaction matrix. The calibration curve for 4-ABP-G was linear from 50 to 5000 pmol/200 microl with R2=0.999. The newly developed method has good precision and accuracy. The intra- and interday precisions were less than 5 and 10%, respectively, and the highest values for intra- and interday accuracies were -4.6 and -12%, respectively. The lower limit of detection was 10 pmol/200 microl. The developed method was used to determine the glucuronidation activity of mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes. Human liver microsomes were the most active in 4-ABP glucuronidation (344.1 pmol/min/mg) followed by rats (30.6 pmol/min/mg) and then mice (12.3 pmol/min/mg). Human UGT1A4 supersomes were much more active than UGT1A9 (184.4 mol/min/mg versus 25.2 mol/min/mg). These results are consistent with those of earlier studies that used the radioactive [C14]UDPGA.
17725881	Immunochromatographic analysis of hippuric acid in urine.	Toluene, a clear, colorless liquid with a distinctive smell, is the most commonly used industrial organic solvent. The adverse effects of chronic toluene exposure have been reported. The abuse of volatile substances is practiced mainly by adolescents and young adults. Chronic toluene abuse causes permanent changes in brain structure correlated with brain dysfunction; therefore, it is important to monitor the level of toluene exposure to prevent neurological damages. In this study, immunochromatographic analysis was performed to measure a level of the exposed toluene easily and accurately in urine. Inhaled toluene is metabolized to hippuric acid (HA) in the liver and secreted in urine. Therefore, the monoclonal antibodies against HA were generated and characterized by indirect competitive ELISA. The sensitivity was then monitored in order to adjust the cutoff concentration to 2 mg of HA/mL of urine. Using these monoclonal antibodies as raw materials, the immunochromatographic device was manufactured with the lateral flow system. The clinical studies were performed with suspected users' urine samples, and the results were confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography.
18431572	Delineation of the interactions between the chemotherapeutic agent eribulin mesylate (E7389) and human CYP3A4.	Eribulin mesylate (E7389), a structurally simplified, synthetic analog of the marine natural product halichondrin B, acts by inhibiting microtubule dynamics via mechanisms distinct from those of other tubulin-targeted agents. Eribulin is currently in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Since drug-induced modulation of cytochrome P450 enzymes, particularly CYP3A4, is a frequent cause of drug-drug interactions, we examined the effects of eribulin on the activity and expression of hepatic and recombinant CYP3A4 (rCYP3A4) in vitro. Identification of the enzyme(s) responsible for eribulin metabolism was based on compound depletion and metabolite formation in reaction mixtures containing subcellular liver fractions or primary human hepatocytes, plus recombinant Phases I and II metabolic enzymes. The role of the enzyme(s) identified was confirmed using enzyme-selective inhibitors and the correlation with prototypic enzyme activity. The effect of eribulin on enzymatic activity was characterized using both microsomal preparations and recombinant enzymes, while the possible modulation of protein expression was evaluated in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Eribulin was primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, resulting in the formation of at least four monooxygenated metabolites. In human liver microsomal preparations, eribulin suppressed the activities of CYP3A4-mediated testosterone and midazolam hydroxylation with an apparent K (i) of approximately 20 microM. Eribulin competitively inhibited the testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, nifedipine dehydration, and R-warfarin 10-hydroxylation activities of rCYP3A4, with an average apparent K (i) of approximately 10 microM. These inhibitions were reversible, with no apparent mechanism-based inactivation. Eribulin did not induce the expression or activities of CYP1A and CYP3A enzymes in human primary hepatocytes, and clinically relevant concentrations of eribulin did not inhibit CYP3A4-mediated metabolism of various therapeutic agents, including carbamazepine, diazepam, paclitaxel, midazolam, tamoxifen, or terfenadine. Eribulin was predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4. Although eribulin competitively inhibited the testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation, nifedipine dehydration, and R-warfarin 10-hydroxylation activities of rCYP3A4, it did not induce or inhibit hepatic CYP3A4 activity at clinically relevant concentrations. As eribulin does not appear to affect the metabolism of other therapeutic agents by CYP3A4, our data suggest that eribulin would not be expected to inhibit the metabolism of concurrently administered drugs that are metabolized by CYP3A4, suggesting a minimal risk of drug-drug interactions in the clinical setting.
21783735	In vitro metabolism and interactions of the fungicide metalaxyl in human liver preparations.	In order to provide additional information for risk assessment of the fungicide metalaxyl, the main objectives were (1) to elucidate the interactions of metalaxyl with different human liver cytochrome P450 enzymes, (2) to tentitatively identify and (semi)quantify metabolites in vitro and (3) to identify human CYP enzymes responsible for metabolism. The mean inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) for 7-pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylation (CYP2B) and bupropion hydroxylation (2B6) were 48.9 and 41.7M, respectively. The biotransformation reactions were hydroxylation, (di)demethylation and lactone formation. In human liver microsomes predominant metabolites were two hydroxymetalaxyl derivatives or atropisomers of one of the derivatives. On the basis of previous rat studies these could be N-(2-hydroxymethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(methoxyacetyl)alanine methyl ester and/or N-(2,6-dimethyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-N-(methoxyacetyl)alanine methyl ester. The amounts of didemethylmetalaxyl N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-N-(hydroxyacetyl)alanine and lactone 4-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-3-methylmorpholine-2,5-dione were higher in homogenates than microsomes. The carcinogenic 2,6-dimethylaniline was not detected. Among the nine major human CYPs, CYP3A4 was the only one responsible for metalaxyl hydroxylation, while CYP2B6 was the major isoform responsible for (di)demethylation and lactone formation.
23509226	Metabolism and pharmacokinetics of novel selective vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 inhibitor apatinib in humans.	Apatinib is a new oral antiangiogenic molecule that inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2. The present study aimed to determine the metabolism, pharmacokinetics, and excretion of apatinib in humans and to identify the enzymes responsible for its metabolism. The primary routes of apatinib biotransformation included E- and Z-cyclopentyl-3-hydroxylation, N-dealkylation, pyridyl-25-N-oxidation, 16-hydroxylation, dioxygenation, and O-glucuronidation after 3-hydroxylation. Nine major metabolites were confirmed by comparison with reference standards. The total recovery of the administered dose was 76.8% within 96 hours postdose, with 69.8 and 7.02% of the administered dose excreted in feces and urine, respectively. About 59.0% of the administered dose was excreted unchanged via feces. Unchanged apatinib was detected in negligible quantities in urine, indicating that systemically available apatinib was extensively metabolized. The major circulating metabolite was the pharmacologically inactive E-3-hydroxy-apatinib-O-glucuronide (M9-2), the steady-state exposure of which was 125% that of the apatinib. The steady-state exposures of E-3-hydroxy-apatinib (M1-1), Z-3-hydroxy-apatinib (M1-2), and apatinib-25-N-oxide (M1-6) were 56, 22, and 32% of parent drug exposure, respectively. Calculated as pharmacological activity index values, the contribution of M1-1 to the pharmacology of the drug was 5.42 to 19.3% that of the parent drug. The contribution of M1-2 and M1-6 to the pharmacology of the drug was less than 1%. Therefore, apatinib was a major contributor to the overall pharmacological activity in humans. Apatinib was metabolized primarily by CYP3A4/5 and, to a lesser extent, by CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP2E1. UGT2B7 was the main enzyme responsible for M9-2 formation. Both UGT1A4 and UGT2B7 were responsible for Z-3-hydroxy-apatinib-O-glucuronide (M9-1) formation.
20176691	Identification and characterization of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases responsible for the in vitro glucuronidation of daphnetin.	Daphnetin has been developed as an oral medicine for treatment of coagulation disorders and rheumatoid arthritis in China, but its in vitro metabolism remains unknown. In the present study, the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) conjugation pathways of daphnetin were characterized. Two metabolites, 7-O-monoglucuronide daphnetin (M-1) and 8-O-monoglucuronide daphnetin (M-2), were identified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and NMR when daphnetin was incubated, respectively, with liver microsomes from human (HLM), rat (RLM), and minipig (PLM) and human intestinal microsomes (HIM) in the presence of UDP-glucuronic acid. Screening assays with 12 human recombinant UGTs demonstrated that the formations of M-1 and M-2 were almost exclusively catalyzed by UGT1A9 and UGT1A6, whereas M-1 was formed to a minor extent by UGT1A3, 1A4, 1A7, 1A8, and 1A10 at a high substrate concentration. Kinetics studies, chemical inhibition, and correlation analysis were used to demonstrate that human UGT1A9 and UGT1A6 were major isoforms involved in the daphnetin glucuronidations in HLM and HIM. By in vitro-in vivo extrapolation of the kinetic data measured in HLM, the hepatic clearance and the corresponding hepatic extraction ratio were estimated to be 19.3 ml/min/kg b.wt. and 0.93, respectively, suggesting that human clearance of daphnetin via the glucuronidation is extensive. Chemical inhibition of daphnetin glucuronidation in HLM, RLM, and PLM showed large species differences although the metabolites were formed similarly among the species. In conclusion, the UGT conjugation pathways of daphnetin were fully elucidated and its C-8 phenol group was more selectively catalyzed by UGTs than by the C-7 phenol.
11469789	Calcitroic acid is a major catabolic metabolite in the metabolism of 1 alpha-dihydroxyvitamin D(2).	Calcitroic acid (1 alpha-hydroxy-23 carboxy-24,25,26,27-tetranorvitamin D(3)) is known to be the major water-soluble metabolite produced during the deactivation of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3). This deactivation process involves a series of oxidation reactions at C(24) and C(23) leading to side-chain cleavage and, ultimately, formation of the calcitroic acid. Like 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3), 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2) is also known to undergo side-chain oxidation; however, to date there has been no evidence suggesting that 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2) undergoes side-chain cleavage. To investigate this possibility, we studied 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2) metabolism in HPK1A-ras cells as well as the well characterized perfused rat kidney system. Lipid and aqueous-soluble metabolites were prepared for characterization. Aqueous-soluble metabolites were subjected to reverse-phase HPLC analysis. The major aqueous-soluble metabolite from both the kidney and cell incubations comigrated with authentic calcitroic acid on two reverse-phase HPLC columns of different chemistry. The putative calcitroic acid from the cell and kidney incubations was methylated and found to comigrate with methylated authentic standard on straight-phase and reverse-phase HPLC columns. The identity of the methylated metabolite from cell incubations was also confirmed by mass spectral analysis. These data show, for the first time, that calcitroic acid is a major terminal product for the deactivation of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2). Intermediates leading to the formation of the calcitroic acid in the 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2) metabolism pathway are currently being studied.
1519299	Interactions between clobazam and standard antiepileptic drugs in patients with epilepsy.	We retrospectively collected plasma level assessments performed in 96 adult patients with epilepsy on stable monotherapy, including 9 patients on clobazam (CLB), 34 on carbamazepine (CBZ), 24 on phenobarbital (PB), 9 on phenytoin (PHT), and 20 on valproate (VPA); these results were compared to those obtained in 54 adult patients on stable bitherapy with the association of CLB with either CBZ (n = 17), PB (n = 17), PHT (n = 5), or VPA (n = 15). Our results show that CLB has no significant effect on the level to dose ratio (LDR) of CBZ, PB, PHT, or VPA. Conversely, CBZ, PB, and PHT significantly decrease the LDR of CLB. CBZ and PHT significantly increase the LDR of N-desmethylclobazam (NCLB), the major metabolite of CLB. A significant increase in the NCLB/CLB ratio was found in CBZ + CLB, PB + CLB, and PHT + CLB bitherapies. These findings are of clinical significance: clobazam is useful as adjunctive treatment in human epilepsy and is often chosen as the benzodiazepine adjunctive drug in chronic resistant epilepsy. Sedative side effects may occur, especially in patients treated by a CBZ + CLB or PHT + CLB bitherapy, and both CLB and NCLB plasma levels should be monitored in such patients.
17322140	Pomegranate juice does not impair clearance of oral or intravenous midazolam, a probe for cytochrome P450-3A activity: comparison with grapefruit juice.	The effect of pomegranate juice (PJ) or grapefruit juice (GFJ) on CYP3A activity was studied in vitro and in healthy human volunteers. In human liver microsomes, the mean 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) for PJ and GFJ versus CYP3A (triazolam alpha-hydroxylation) were 0.61% and 0.55%, (v/v) respectively, without preincubation of inhibitor with microsomes. After preincubation, the IC(50) for PJ increased to 0.97% (P < .05), whereas the IC(50) for GFJ decreased to 0.41% (P < .05), suggesting mechanism-based inhibition by GFJ but not PJ. Pretreatment of volunteer subjects (n = 13) with PJ (8 oz) did not alter the elimination half-life, volume of distribution, or clearance of intravenous midazolam (2 mg). Administration of PJ also did not affect C(max), total area under the curve (AUC), or clearance of oral midazolam (6 mg). However, GFJ (8 oz) increased midazolam C(max) and AUC by a factor of 1.3 and 1.5, respectively, and reduced oral clearance to 72% of control values. Thus, PJ does not alter clearance of intravenous or oral midazolam, whereas GFJ impairs clearance and elevates plasma levels of oral midazolam.
18607579	Effect of food on systemic exposure to niflumic acid following postprandial administration of talniflumate.	Talniflumate was designed as a prodrug of niflumic acid, a potent analgesic and anti-inflammatory drug, which is widely prescribed for treating rheumatoid diseases. The prandial effect on talniflumate absorption remains unclear; therefore, this study investigated the effect of food on the systemic exposure to niflumic acid in healthy volunteers. Volunteers received a single 740-mg dose of talniflumate 30 min after consuming a high-fat breakfast, a low-fat breakfast, or no food (fasting condition). Plasma concentrations of both talniflumate and niflumic acid were measured using validated high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry. The maximum concentration of niflumic acid was 224 +/- 193 ng/ml at approximately 2.7 h in the fasted condition compared with 886 +/- 417 ng/ml (p < 0.05) at 1.8 h and 1,159 +/- 508 ng/ml (p < 0.01) at 2.2 h with the low- and high-fat meals, respectively. The mean area under the curve from zero to infinity (AUC(inf)) values after the low- and high-fat meals were four- and fivefold, respectively, the value while fasting (p < 0.05). It is strongly recommended that talniflumate be taken after a meal to increase systemic exposure to its active metabolite. Our results suggest a reduction in the daily dosage of talniflumate when taken with food.
20973004	Analysis of exemestane and 17-hydroxyexemestane in human urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry: development and validation of a method using MO-TMS derivatives.	Trimethylsilylation of anabolic agents and their metabolites is frequently achieved by using the derivatization mixture N-methyl-N-(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (MSTFA)/NH(4)I/2-mercaptoethanol. Nevertheless, artifacts were formed when this mixture was employed in the monitoring of exemestane and its main metabolite 17-hydroxyexemestane prior to GC-MS analysis. These artifacts were identified as the N-methyltrifluoroacetamide (MTFA) and trimethylsiloxyethylmercapto products of the respective trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives. Furthermore, artifact formation was evaluated taking the structure (1,4-diene-3-keto-6-exomethylene) of the compounds into account. Although these artifacts are relevant for investigations regarding the derivatization process and may be of interest in many fields, they are detrimental to cope with the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) in terms of the limits of detection (LODs) required. To overcome this issue, a method using an alternative derivatization was proposed: formation of methyloxime-TMS derivatives through double derivatization using O-methylhydroxylamine/pyridine and MSTFA/TMS imidazole after enzymatic hydrolysis and liquid-liquid extraction. Samples from an excretion study after administration of exemestane to healthy volunteers were analyzed by the proposed method and detection of both exemestane and its main metabolite was possible. This method showed excellent results for both analytes meeting the LODs required for antiestrogenic agents (50 ng/mL) established by WADA. The method was validated for the main metabolite, it was robust and cost-effective for qualitative and quantitative purposes, with LOD and LOQ of 10 ng/mL and 25 ng/mL, respectively.
22106962	In vitro-in vivo correlation for intrinsic clearance for CP-409,092 and sumatriptan: a case study to predict the in vivo clearance for compounds metabolized by monoamine oxidase.	Oxidative deamination of the GABA(A) partial agonist CP-409,092 and sumatriptan represents a major metabolic pathway and seems to play an important role for the clearance of these two compounds. Similar to sumatriptan, human mitochondrial incubations with deprenyl and clorgyline, probe inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B and monoamine oxidase A (MAO-B and MAO-A), respectively, showed that CP-409,092 was metabolized to a large extent by the enzyme MAO-A. The metabolism of CP-409,092 and sumatriptan was therefore studied in human liver mitochondria and in vitro intrinsic clearance (CL(int)) values were determined and compared to the corresponding in vivo oral clearance (CL(PO)) values. The overall objective was to determine whether an in vitro-in vivo correlation (IVIVC) could be described for compounds cleared by MAO-A. The intrinsic clearance, CL(int), of CP-409,092 was approximately 4-fold greater than that of sumatriptan (CL(int), values were calculated as 0.008 and 0.002 ml/mg/min for CP-409,092 and sumatriptan, respectively). A similar correlation was observed from the in vivo metabolic data where the unbound oral clearance, CL(u)(PO), values in humans were calculated as 724 and 178 ml/min/kg for CP-409,092 and sumatriptan, respectively. The present work demonstrates that it is possible to predict in vivo metabolic clearance from in vitro metabolic data for drugs metabolized by the enzyme monoamine oxidase.
15182961	Chronic levodopa intake increases levodopa plasma bioavailability in patients with Parkinson's disease.	Previous pharmacokinetic trials with standard levodopa formulations showed a different behavior of levodopa degradation in plasma of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in various advanced stages. The objective of this trial was to compare levodopa plasma metabolism in PD patients with and without previous long-term levodopa intake after oral intake of a dispensable levodopa/benserazide formulation (DLB). The over a 150 min interval computed area under the curve values of levodopa plasma levels after DLB administration were significantly (ANCOVA: F(1,19) = 7.88, P = 0.01) higher in PD patients with chronic levodopa treatment compared to patients without prior levodopa treatment. The maximum plasma levodopa concentration did not differ (ANCOVA: F(1.19) = 1.17, P = 0.29). Long-term levodopa administration results in an increased levodopa plasma bioavailability in PD patients.
12065058	Drug-metabolizing activity of human and rat liver, lung, kidney and intestine slices.	1. Organ-specific biotransformation was studied in human and rat liver, lung, kidney and small intestine slices and compared on a protein basis, using four model substances. 2. Deethylation of lidocaine was highest in liver slices from both man and rat, followed by the small intestine. 3. Metabolism of testosterone was highest in liver slices, but a different overall metabolic pattern was found between the different organs. 4. Lung, kidney and intestine slices prepared from human and rat organs showed mainly an unknown metabolite of 7-ethoxycoumarin identified as 4-ethoxy-2-hydroxyphenyl propionic acid (EPPA). 5. The maximal metabolism of 7-ethoxycoumarin in slices was equal with in vivo V(max) in the rat. 6. Phase II metabolism of 7-hydroxycoumarin in kidney and intestinal slices was about 60% of the activity in liver slices. 7. In conclusion, organs other than the liver show a surprisingly high drug-metabolizing activity. Thus, the use of precision-cut slices of a combination of drug metabolizing organs in an in vitro test system from both animal and human origin is required for a proper systematic prediction of drug metabolism in man.
20028383	Phase I study of irinotecan and doxifluridine for metastatic colorectal cancer focusing on the UGT1A1*28 polymorphism.	Although individuals carrying the UGT1A1 allele *28 have an increased risk of severe toxicities associated with irinotecan, no phase I study has been conducted based on the polymorphism. This report presents the recommended doses of irinotecan for patients with the respective genotypes. Twenty-seven patients with advanced colorectal cancer were enrolled in this study, and the UGT1A1*28 polymorphism was genotyped before chemotherapy. One course of chemotherapy consisted of irinotecan infused once every 2 weeks at 70, 100, 120, and 150 mg/m(2) at dose levels 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, and doxifluridine was administered orally. This treatment continued for at least 12 weeks. The dose-limiting toxicity was determined as grade 3 hematological and non-hematological toxicities for the TA(6)/TA(6) (6/6) and TA(6)/TA(7) (6/7) genotypes. The pharmacokinetics of irinotecan, SN-38, and SN-38 glucuronide, was assessed at dose level 2. Eighteen and nine patients had the 6/6 and 6/7 genotypes, respectively. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was not observed up to dose level 4 in patients with the 6/6 genotype. In contrast, MTD was observed at dose level 2 (100 mg/m(2)) in patients with the 6/7 genotype. Patients with the 6/7 genotype had a significantly higher area under the plasma time-concentration curve (0-infinity) SN-38 (P = 0.022) and biliary index (P = 0.030) than those with 6/6. The recommended starting doses of biweekly irinotecan for phase II/III were 150 mg/m(2) for patients with the UGT1A1 6/6 genotype and 70 mg/m(2) for those with the 6/7 genotype, respectively. The gene polymorphism should be considered when determining the precise recommended doses to be administered in phase I studies.
22234871	Analysis of ethyl glucuronide in hair samples by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).	Many different biomarkers can be used to evaluate ethanol intake. Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a direct phase II and minor metabolite of ethanol formed through the UDP-glucuronosyl transferase-catalyzed conjugation of ethanol with glucuronic acid. Its investigation is of interest in both clinical and forensic contexts because of the wide window of detection. A sensitive LC-MS/MS procedure has been developed and fully validated according to the guidelines of forensic toxicology for the analysis of EtG in hair. Sample preparation and chromatographic separation were thoroughly optimized. The analysis was performed in the multiple reaction monitoring mode using the transitions m/z 221  203 (for the quantification) and 221  85 or 75 (for the qualification) for EtG, and m/z 226  208 (for quantification) and 226  75 or 85 (for qualification) for EtG-D5, used as the internal standard. Analyses were carried out using an Inertsil ODS-3 column (100  3 mm i.d., 3 m particle size) and a mobile phase composed of formic acid and acetonitrile. Various SPE cartridges and solvents were tested in order to obtain the highest recoveries and cleanest extracts. The assay linearity of EtG was confirmed over the range from 20 to 2500 pg mg(-1), with a coefficient of determination (R(2) ) above 0.99. The lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) was 20 pg mg(-1) and the limit of detection was 10 pg mg(-1). Intra- and inter-day assays were less than 15% except at the LLOQ (20%). The analytical method was applied to 72 post-mortem hair samples. EtG concentration in the hair ranged from 0 to 653 pg mg(-1) hair.
15013842	Uridine diphosphate sugar-selective conjugation of an aldose reductase inhibitor (AS-3201) by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B subfamily in human liver microsomes.	N-Glucosidation is known as a major metabolic reaction for barbiturates in humans. However, the enzyme(s) involved in this N-glucosidation has not been clarified yet. Thus, to clarify the enzyme(s) involved in the N-glucosidation in human liver microsomes, we investigated the N-glucosyltransferase activity in recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) using AS-3201, an aldose reductase inhibitor, as a substrate. AS-3201 was found to be biotransformed to both N-glucoside and N-glucuronide in human liver microsomes. The N-glucosyltransferase activities were detectable with multiple UGT isoforms (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT2B4, UGT2B7, and UGT2B15). In contrast, the N-glucuronyltransferase activities for the same substrate were seen with UGT1A (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, and UGT1A9) but not UGT2B isoforms. We then determined the relative activity factor of each recombinant UGT and estimated the contribution of each UGT isoform to the N-glucosidation in human liver microsomes. The results showed that UGT2B isoforms mainly contribute to AS-3201 N-glucosidation in human liver microsomes. In addition, the activity of AS-3201 N-glucosyltransferase significantly correlated with that of amobarbital N-glucosyltransferase in microsomes from sixteen human livers (r=0.964, P<0.01), indicating that UGT2B isoforms were also involved in the barbiturate N-glucosidation in humans. The findings of this study clearly show that UGT2B specifically utilizes UDP-glucose but not UDP-glucuronic acid as a sugar donor for the conjugation of AS-3201 in human liver microsomes.
15931663	Chiral aspects of the human metabolism of ethosuximide.	Ethosuximide is a chiral drug substance primarily indicated for the treatment of absence seizures. This drug is used clinically as the racemate. The human urinary metabolites of ethosuximide (I) have been studied using chiral gas chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The metabolites identified were the previously reported unchanged ethosuximide (I) enantiomers, all four stereoisomers of 2-(1-hydroxyethyl)-2-methylsuccinimide (II), and the four stereoisomers of 2-ethyl-3-hydroxy-2-methylsuccinimide (III). Through chemical derivatization methodology and GC/MS (using electron impact ionization [EI] and chemical ionization [CI] techniques) two enantiomers of a previously unreported metabolite of ethosuximide, 2-ethyl-2-hydroxymethylsuccinimide (VI), have been identified.
8738046	High-performance liquid chromatographic assay of mepivacaine enantiomers in human plasma in the nanogram per milliliter range.	A method enabling quantification of R-(-)- and S-(+)-mepivacaine in human plasma in the low nanogram per milliliter range is described. The procedure involves extraction from plasma with diethyl ether, centrifugation, back-extraction into an acidified aqueous solution, washing with a mixture of pentane and isoamylalcohol, alkalinisation, followed by extraction with a mixture of n-pentane and isoamylalcohol. After evaporation of the organic phase, the residue is redissolved in the mobile phase used for the HPLC analysis, which consists of a 6.8:93.2 (v/v) isopropanol-sodium hydrogenphosphate buffer solution with the pH adjusted to 6.8 using phosphoric acid. The HPLC method has been described previously. Separation of the enantiomers is achieved with an alpha 1-AGP column and the UV detection wavelength is 210 nm. The minimal detectable concentration is ca. 3 ng/ml and the lower limit of quantification is 5 ng/ml for each enantiomer. For both enantiomers r is > 0.9995 over the plasma enantiomeric concentration range of 10.5-1053 ng/ml.
16019948	Identification of cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of 3',4'-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (MDPPP), a designer drug, in human liver microsomes.	The metabolism of 3',4'-methylenedioxy-a-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (MDPPP), a novel designer drug, to its demethylenated major metabolite 3',4'-dihydroxy-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (di-HO-PPP) was studied in pooled human liver microsomes (HLM) and in cDNA-expressed human hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. CYP2C19 catalysed the demethylenation with apparent Km and Vmax values of 120.0+/-13.4 microM and 3.2+/-0.1 pmol/min/pmol CYP, respectively (mean+/-standard deviation). CYP2D6 catalysed the demethylenation with apparent Km and Vmax values of 13.5+/-1.5 microM and 1.3+/-0.1 pmol/min/pmol CYP, respectively. HLM exhibited a clear biphasic profile with an apparent Km,1 value of 7.6+/-9.0 and a Vmax,1 value of 11.1+/-3.6 pmol/min/mg protein, respectively. Percentages of intrinsic clearances of MDPPP by specific CYPs were calculated using the relative activity factor (RAF) approach with (S)-mephenytoin-4'-hydroxylation or bufuralol-1'-hydroxylation as index reactions for CYP2C19 or CYP2D6, respectively. MDPPP, di-HO-PPP and the standard 4'-methyl-pyrrolidinohexanophenone (MPHP) were separated and analysed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in the selected-ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The CYP2D6-specific chemical inhibitor quinidine (3 microM) significantly (p<0.001) inhibited di-HO-PPP formation by 75.8%+/-1.7% (mean+/-standard error of the mean) in incubation mixtures with HLM and 2 microM MDPPP. It can be concluded from the data obtained from kinetic and inhibition studies that polymorphically expressed CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 are almost equally responsible for MDPPP demethylenation.
18022977	Sila-haloperidol, a silicon analogue of the dopamine (D2) receptor antagonist haloperidol: synthesis, pharmacological properties, and metabolic fate.	Haloperidol (1 a), a dopamine (D(2)) receptor antagonist, is in clinical use as an antipsychotic agent. Carbon/silicon exchange (sila-substitution) at the 4-position of the piperidine ring of 1 a (R(3)COH --> R(3)SiOH) leads to sila-haloperidol (1 b). Sila-haloperidol was synthesized in a new multistep synthesis, starting from tetramethoxysilane and taking advantage of the properties of the 2,4,6-trimethoxyphenyl unit as a unique protecting group for silicon. The pharmacological profiles of the C/Si analogues 1 a and 1 b were studied in competitive receptor binding assays at D(1)-D(5), sigma(1), and sigma(2) receptors. Sila-haloperidol (1 b) exhibits significantly different receptor subtype selectivities from haloperidol (1 a) at both receptor families. The C/Si analogues 1 a and 1 b were also studied for 1) their physicochemical properties (log D, pK(a), solubility in HBSS buffer (pH 7.4)), 2) their permeability in a human Caco-2 model, 3) their pharmacokinetic profiles in human and rat liver microsomes, and 4) their inhibition of the five major cytochrome P450 isoforms. In addition, the major in vitro metabolites of sila-haloperidol (1 b) in human liver microsomes were identified using mass-spectrometric techniques. Due to the special chemical properties of silicon, the metabolic fates of the C/Si analogues 1 a and 1 b are totally different.
22437449	Pharmacokinetics of lacosamide in healthy korean male volunteers.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of single and repeated doses of lacosamide in healthy male Korean volunteers and to compare the PK profile of lacosamide in Korean and Caucasian populations. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-escalation trial, 16 volunteers received a single dose (50 mg) of lacosamide or placebo, and 32 volunteers were administered single/repeated twice-daily doses (100 or 200 mg) of lacosamide or placebo. For multiple doses of 100 and 200 mg twice daily, the geometric means C(max,ss) were 6.23 (15.0) and 13.13 (8.9) g/ml respectively, and AUC()(,s)(s) values were 52.10 (17.0) and 112.35 (13.0) gh/ml, respectively. Values for both parameters were relatively higher than those seen in Caucasians. To further describe ethnic differences, population PK analysis was assessed. A one-compartment model with first-order absorption and elimination was selected and effects of CL(creatinine) on CL/F and body surface area on V/F were included in the final model. There were no other ethnic differences in the PK profile of lacosamide between Koreans and Caucasians based on the population PK analysis, except for the demographic differences.
14516487	Tentative identification of novel oxycodone metabolites in human urine.	Oxycodone is a semisynthetic codeine derivative that has been used both as an analgesic and antitussive. In the mid 1990s, OxyContin was introduced as a slow-release formulation of oxycodone for use in patients with moderate to severe chronic pain from such ailments as arthritis, vertebral disc disease, and cancer. Doctors wrote 6.9 million prescriptions for OxyContin from May 2000 through May 2001. Thus, it is no surprise that hospitals and medical examiners' offices across the country have seen an increasing number of admissions and deaths resulting from oxycodone abuse and overdose. The laboratory identifies oxycodone as part of its routine abused and therapeutic drug-testing procedures. Routine gas chromatographic analysis of bile or urine in many of these cases revealed unidentified peaks in the region of oxycodone that appeared to be oxycodone metabolites. In humans, the only documented metabolites of oxycodone are oxymorphone and N-desmethyloxycodone (noroxycodone). This study attempts to characterize these compounds as "presumptive" metabolites based on circumstantial evidence from known metabolic pathways of oxycodone in other species, as well as of other opiates and narcotic analgesics.
3356089	The oxidative metabolism of sparteine in the Cuna Amerindians of Panama: absence of evidence for deficient metabolizers.	Sparteine sulfate (50 mg) was administered to 170 Cuna Amerindians, 142 of whom were unrelated, and the drug and its dehydrometabolites were determined in the 0- to 12-hour urine samples. The log10 of the metabolic ratio was unimodally, but not normally, distributed and showed the following values: mean -0.21 +/- 0.26, median -0.24, limits -0.73 and 0.76, skewness 1.00, and kurtosis 4.95. On the basis of these results, it can be concluded that there are no deficient metabolizers in the Cuna sample population studied. However, the similarity of the skewness found between the Cuna sample population studied and the extensive Canadian white group, as well as an inflection point at 6.3 U in the former's probit plot, suggests the existence of at least two subgroups congregating within the same single mode in the frequency distribution curve. The use of the inflection point is discussed thoroughly, concluding that although it does not allow exclusion of the existence of genotypically different subgroups, the limitations of the data do not permit its use to determine the number of heterozygotes and thus the existence of polymorphism. The possibility of an isozyme variant, consistent with the general genetic structure of Amerindians, as suggested by the coexistence of two subgroups within the unimodal curve, is entertained.
11868802	Isoniazid is a mechanism-based inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A2, 2A6, 2C19 and 3A4 isoforms in human liver microsomes.	In order to evaluate the inhibitory effects of isoniazid on cytochrome P450 (CYP) mediated drug metabolism, the in vitro inhibitory potency and specificity as well as the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-, time- and concentration dependency of isoniazid as an inhibitor of the activity of the major human CYP isoforms were studied. Using pooled human liver microsomes, the in vitro inhibitory effects of isoniazid on CYP1A2 (phenacetin O-deethylation), CYP2A6 (coumarin 7-hydroxylation), CYP2C9 (tolbutamide hydroxylation), CYP2CI9 (S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation), CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan O-demethylation), CYP2E1 (chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation) and CYP3A4 (midazolam 1'-hydroxylation) activities were examined. After a 15-min preincubation without NADPH, isoniazid reversibly inhibited microsomal CYP2C19- and CYP3A4-mediated reactions with apparent Ki values of 36 microM and 73 microM, respectively. However, isoniazid had only weak inhibitory effects on the five other CYP-mediated reactions (Ki > 110 microM). After a 15-min preincubation with NADPH, isoniazid showed an increased inhibitory potency toward CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 activities (Ki = 56, 60, 10 and 36 microM, respectively). In addition, the inactivation of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 by isoniazid was NADPH-, time- and concentration dependent, and was characterised by Kinact values of 0.11, 0.13, 0.09 and 0.08 min(-1), and K1 values of 285, 173, 112 and 228 microM, respectively. As the peak plasma concentrations of isoniazid are around 30-50 microM, isoniazid at clinically relevant concentrations reversibly inhibits CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 activities, and mechanistically inactivates CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 in human liver microsomes. Co-administration of isoniazid and drugs that are primarily metabolised by these CYP isoforms, particularly by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, may result in significant drug interactions.
17015055	The thiopurine methyltransferase genetic polymorphism is associated with thioguanine-related veno-occlusive disease of the liver in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Thiopurine metabolism was investigated in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated in the United Kingdom Medical Research Council trial ALL97. This trial compared the efficacy and toxicity of thioguanine (INN, thioguanine) versus mercaptopurine. Consecutive children were randomized to receive thioguanine or mercaptopurine during maintenance chemotherapy. Toxicity data were collected by an adverse event-reporting system with follow-up questionnaires. Red blood cell thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) activity and thioguanine nucleotide concentrations were measured by standard techniques. Of the children, 748 were randomized to thioguanine and 744 were randomized to mercaptopurine. There was no difference in the event-free survival rate between the 2 groups (80% and 81%, respectively, at 5 years). Thioguanine was associated with veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver in 95 children, and persistent splenomegaly as a result of portal hypertension developed in 43 children. TPMT activity was significantly lower in the children in whom VOD developed, with a median of 13.4 U (range, 5.8-23 U) compared with 15.2 U (range, 5.3-27) in a control group of 161 leukemia patients in whom VOD did not develop (median difference, 1.8 U; 95% confidence interval, 0.9-2.7 U; P = .0001). TPMT activity in children with persistent splenomegaly was also lower than that in control subjects (median difference, 1.6 U; 95% confidence interval, 0.3-2.8 U; P = .012). There was no difference in red blood cell thioguanine nucleotide concentrations. Thioguanine was associated with liver damage in 11% of children randomized to thioguanine without an improvement in event-free survival rate. The association of lower TPMT activity with thioguanine-related liver damage could provide a means of identifying at-risk patients.
23681817	Comparative metabolism and stability of andrographolide in liver microsomes from humans, dogs and rats using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with triple-quadrupole and Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry.	Andrographolide (AP) is a major active anti-inflammatory compound extracted from Andrographis paniculata Nees. The metabolism stability of AP is one of the key factors for its further development as a new drug candidate. In order to clarify the biotransformation of AP among species, a comparative investigation of its in vitro metabolic pathways in human, dog and rat liver microsomes was carried out. In the present study, the in vitro metabolic profiles of AP using pooled human (HLMs), dog (DLMs) and rat (RLMs) liver microsomes were studied. The in vitro biotransformation including phase I and phase II incubation systems and metabolic stabilities of AP were studied for the first time. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled with Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) was used for identification of metabolites and quantification of AP. Eight phase I and five phase II metabolites resulted from dehydration, deoxygenation, hydrogenation and glucuronidation were tentatively identified by accurate mass measurement and MS/MS fragmentation behavior. A dehydration reaction was detected in all these incubation systems. Deoxy-AP and the related glucuronide metabolites were observed in HLMs only. Besides, the metabolic stabilities of AP in the three liver microsomes showed that the in vitro intrinsic clearance (CLint) of RLMs was much higher than that of HLMs and DLMs. A qualitative and semi-quantitative method was developed for the identification and metabolic stabilities of AP. The general metabolic profiles between three species were clarified. Significant species differences indicated a more cautious strategy for further pharmacokinetics research of AP in animal models.
16814335	Detection and quantification of glucuro- and sulfoconjugated metabolites in human urine following oral administration of xenobiotic 19-norsteroids.	Recently, the endogenous origin of nandrolone (19-nortestosterone) and other 19-norsteroids has been a focus of research in the field of drug testing in sport. In the present study, we investigated metabolites conjugated to a glucuronic acid and to a sulfuric acid in urine following administration of four xenobiotic 19-norsteroids. Adult male volunteers administered a single oral dose (10 mg) of each of four 19-norsteroids. Urinary samples collected from 0 to 120 h were subjected to methanolysis and beta-glucuronidase hydrolysis and were derivatized by N-methyl-N-trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) before gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. We confirmed that 19-norandrosterone (19-NA) and 19-noretiocholanolone (19-NE) were present in both glucuronide (g) and sulfate (s) conjugates and 19-norepiandrosterone (19-NEA) was excreted exclusively as a sulfate fraction in urine of all 19-norsteroids tested. The overall levels of the three metabolites can be ranked as follows: 19-NA(g+s)>19-NE(g+s)>19-NEA(s). The concentration profiles of these three metabolites in urine peaked between 2 to 12h post-administration and declined thereafter until approximately 72-96 h. 19-NA was most prominent throughout the first 24 h post-administration, except for a case in which an inverse relationship was found after 6h post-administration of nandrolone. Furthermore, we found that sulfate conjugates were present in both 19-NA and 19-NE metabolites in urine of all 19-norsteroids tested. The averaged total amounts of metabolites (i.e. 19-NA(s+g)+19-NE(s+g)+19-NEA(s)) excreted in urine were 38.6, 42.9, 48.3 and 21.6% for nandrolone, 19-nor-4-androsten-3,17-dione, 19-nor-4-androsten-3beta,17beta-diol and 19-nor-5-androstene-3beta,17beta-diol, respectively. Results from the excretion studies demonstrate significance of sulfate-conjugated metabolites on interpretation of misuse of the 19-norsteroids.
7990439	Urinary screening for benzodiazepines with radioreceptor assay: comparison with EMIT d.a.u. benzodiazepine assay and high-performance liquid chromatography.	The radioreceptor assay (RRA) provides a total estimate of all pharmacologically active forms of benzodiazepines and their metabolites. We evaluated the method for urine drug screening. Detection limits of the most commonly used benzodiazepines and their major metabolites were determined. In all cases, the detection limits were lower than the cutoff values specified for the Syva EMIT d.a.u. benzodiazepine assay. Thirty-three urine samples for routine drug screening were tested for benzodiazepines by RRA and EMIT. Results were compared with those obtained by a highly specific high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method. Five commonly used benzodiazepines and their major metabolites were identified by use of a computerized multichannel photodetector. We obtained two false-negative results by RRA when compared with HPLC. These may be caused by conjugate formation. The inclusion of a simple enzymatic hydrolysis improves the detection of compounds excreted in the urine as glucuronide conjugates (e.g., oxazepam). We conclude that the combination of enzymatic hydrolysis and direct RRA provides a rapid and acceptable method for detection of the presence of benzodiazepines in urine samples.
14505797	Stability of the new prodrug 9-aminocamptothecin glucuronide (9ACG) in the presence of human serum albumin.	9-aminocamptothecin glucuronide (9ACG) is a new water-soluble prodrug of 9-aminocamptothecin (9AC) that is a substrate for beta-glucuronidase and displays potent antitumor activity against human tumor xenografts. The lactone ring of camptothecins (CPTs) is required for antitumor activity but spontaneously opens under physiological conditions to an inactive carboxy form. The carboxy form of many CPTs, including 9AC, preferentially binds to human serum albumin (HSA), which further reduces the equilibrium amount of active lactone and greatly decreases antitumor efficacy. In this study, we examined the hypothesis that the unique structure of 9ACG might alter prodrug interaction with HSA and increase 9ACG lactone stability as compared with 9AC. HPLC analysis revealed that HSA did not affect the equilibrium level of 9ACG lactone whereas both CPT lactone and 9AC lactone were greatly reduced in the presence of HSA as compared to their equilibrium levels in PBS. Similar results were found in human serum and whole blood. The lactone ring of 9ACG also opened more slowly (t(1/2)=50 min) as compared with 9AC (t(1/2)=20 min) in the presence of HSA. Both 9ACG lactone and 9ACG carboxy bound HSA with similar affinities (K(D) approximately 4.5 x 10(-5)M(-1)). Binding of 9ACG to HSA reduced prodrug toxicity to cancer cells by about 10-fold in vitro. Injection of HSA into nude mice prolonged the half-life of 9ACG by about 3-fold, indicating that albumin-bound 9ACG lactone may act as a depot of active prodrug in vivo. Our results suggests that in contrast to CPT and 9AC, HSA does not appear to adversely affect 9ACG and may enhance the selective antitumor activity of 9ACG in tumors that contain beta-glucuronidase.
15740074	Degradation of neohesperidin dihydrochalcone by human intestinal bacteria.	The degradation of neohesperidin dihydrochalcone by human intestinal microbiota was studied in vitro. Human fecal slurries converted neohesperidin dihydrochalcone anoxically to 3-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)propionic acid or 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)propionic acid. Two transient intermediates were identified as hesperetin dihydrochalcone 4'-beta-d-glucoside and hesperetin dihydrochalcone. These metabolites suggest that neohesperidin dihydrochalcone is first deglycosylated to hesperetin dihydrochalcone 4'-beta-d-glucoside and subsequently to the aglycon hesperetin dihydrochalcone. The latter is hydrolyzed to the corresponding 3-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)propionic acid and probably phloroglucinol. Eubacterium ramulus and Clostridium orbiscindens were not capable of converting neohesperidin dihydrochalcone. However, hesperetin dihydrochalcone 4'-beta-d-glucoside was converted by E. ramulus to hesperetin dihydrochalcone and further to 3-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)propionic acid, but not by C. orbiscindens. In contrast, hesperetin dihydrochalcone was cleaved to 3-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)propionic acid by both species. The latter reaction was shown to be catalyzed by the phloretin hydrolase from E. ramulus.
15384156	The detection of piroxicam, tenoxicam and their metabolites in equine urine by electrospray ionisation ion trap mass spectrometry.	An investigation has been conducted into the metabolism and urinary excretion of orally administered piroxicam and tenoxicam in the horse. The major component detected in urine after the administration of piroxicam was 5'-hydroxypiroxicam, which was detectable up to 24 h post-administration. Unchanged piroxicam was present only as a minor component. In contrast, unchanged tenoxicam was the major component observed after the administration of tenoxicam, being detectable for 72 h post-administration, while 5'-hydroxytenoxicam was a minor component. Phase II beta-glucuronide conjugation in each case was found to be negligible. The ion trap mass spectral characteristics of piroxicam, tenoxicam, 5'-hydroxypiroxicam and 5'-hydroxytenoxicam under electrospray ionisation conditions were examined in some detail.
20857171	Phase I study of oral irinotecan as a single-agent and given sequentially with capecitabine.	To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of orally administered irinotecan in the semi-solid matrix (SSM) formulation, both as a single agent and in sequential combination with capecitabine, in patients with advanced solid tumors. Forty-three patients were treated with irinotecan given as a single oral daily dose on days 1-5 every three weeks. An additional forty patients were treated with sequential oral irinotecan given daily on days 1-5 followed by capecitabine given orally as a divided dose twice daily on days 6-14 of each three week cycle. The MTD of single-agent oral irinotecan was estimated to be 60 mg/m(2)/day, and DLT included diarrhea, nausea, and neutropenia. In an initial group of patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 0 to 2, the MTD of sequential oral irinotecan/capecitabine was estimated to be 40/1600 mg/m(2)/day with DLT of delayed diarrhea. In a subsequent group of patients with ECOG PS of 0 or 1, the MTD for the sequential combination was 50/2000 mg/m(2)/day. The most common adverse events were fatigue, diarrhea, nausea/vomiting and dehydration. Pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation showed that oral irinotecan was rapidly absorbed and effectively converted to the active metabolite, SN-38, achieving approximately 50% of the SN-38 systemic exposure resulting from an equivalent IV dose. Oral irinotecan can be safely administered as a single agent or in sequential combination with capecitabine. The efficacy of oral irinotecan should be explored further as a potentially convenient alternative to IV chemotherapy.
15769123	Allicin and allicin-derived garlic compounds increase breath acetone through allyl methyl sulfide: use in measuring allicin bioavailability.	Progress in establishing systemic pharmacological effects for fresh, crushed garlic (Allium sativum L) in humans has been hindered by (1) the inability to measure allicin bioavailability, (2) lack of direct evidence that allicin has significant systemic activity at doses of garlic normally consumed, and (3) lack of a model for an acute effect. We have addressed these problems by quantifying the increases in breath acetone and breath allyl methyl sulfide (AMS). The area under the 48 h curve was measured in humans after consumption of standardized garlic preparations, allicin, and allicin-derived compounds, at the equivalent of 7 g of crushed garlic. It was shown that the allyl thiosulfinates (mainly allicin) are solely responsible for breath AMS and increased breath acetone. Diallyl trisulfide, diallyl disulfide, ajoene, and S-allylmercaptocysteine, at isomolar dithioallyl, showed the same quantitative effects as allicin. Consumption of AMS at isomolar allyl also gave the same effects as allicin, indicating that AMS is the main metabolite of allicin and is an active metabolite. In conclusion, allicin and allicin-derived compounds are rapidly metabolized to AMS, a compound which stimulates the production of acetone and which can be used to measure the bioavailability of allicin and, hence, the ability of garlic supplements to represent fresh garlic.
23623764	New insights into the human metabolism of the Fusarium mycotoxins deoxynivalenol and zearalenone.	This study reports on the detailed investigation of human deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEN) in vivo metabolism through the analysis of urine samples obtained from one volunteer following a naturally contaminated diet containing 138g DON and 10g ZEN over a period of four days. Based on the mycotoxin intake and the concentrations of mycotoxin conjugates in urine, a mass balance was established. The average rates of DON excretion and glucuronidation were determined to be 68 and 76%, respectively. The investigation of formed glucuronides revealed DON-15-glucuronide as main conjugation product besides DON-3-glucuronide. Furthermore, for the first time in human urine a third DON-glucuronide was detected and the fate of ingested masked DON forms (3-acetyl-DON and DON-3-glucoside) was preliminary assessed. The mean excretion rate of ZEN was determined to be 9.4%. ZEN was mainly present in its glucuronide form and in some samples ZEN-14-glucuronide was directly determined 3-10h after exposure. For the first time concrete figures have become available for the excretion pattern of DON and ZEN-glucuronides throughout a day, the comparison of total DON in 24h and first morning urine samples and the urinary excretion rate of total ZEN in humans following exposure through naturally contaminated food. Therefore, valuable preliminary information has been obtained through the chosen experimental approach although the study involved only one single individual and needs to be confirmed in larger monitoring studies. The presented experiment contributes to a better understanding of human DON and ZEN in vivo metabolism and thereby supports advanced exposure and risk assessment to increase food safety and examine the relationship between these mycotoxins and potentially associated chronic diseases in the future.
21899210	Pharmacokinetics of betamethasone and betamethasone 17-monopropionate in Chinese healthy volunteers after intramuscular injection of betamethasone phosphate/betamethasone dipropionate.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profiles of betamethasone (BOH, CAS 378-44-9) and betamethasone 17-monopropionate (B17P), the active metabolites of betamethasone phosphate (BSP) and betamethasone dipropionate (BDP), respectively, after administration of betamethasone i.m. (BSP 2 mg and BDP 5 mg). After ten healthy volunteers had received a single-dose intramuscular adminitration of betamethasone i.m., blood samples were collected pre-dose and for 336 h postdose. The plasma levels of B17P and BOH were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/ MS). When compared to BOH, B17P exhibited a longer time to maximum concentration (15.0 +/- 9.0 h vs. 2.8 +/- 1.7 h), a lower Cmax (0.6 +/- 0.2 ng/mL vs. 14.5 +/- 3.7 ng/mL), and a much longer half-life (80.8 +/- 22.7 h vs. 9.6 +/- 3.6 h). Betamethasone i.m. produced rapid onset and sustained action through an initial rapid-increased plasma concentration of BOH and a sustained plasma concentration of B17P, respectively.
1888331	Comparative studies on coumarin and testosterone metabolism in mouse and human livers. Differential inhibitions by the anti-P450Coh antibody and metyrapone.	We have studied coumarin 7-hydroxylase (COH) and testosterone 15 alpha-hydroxylase (15 alpha OH) activities in human liver microsomes and compared them with corresponding activities catalysed by members of the P450IIA sub-family in DBA/2N mouse liver microsomes. Human liver contained low levels of 15 alpha OH (about 5-30 pmol/min/mg protein) when compared with control mouse liver microsomes (about 200 pmol/min/mg protein). The anti-P450Coh antibody efficiently inhibited mouse liver 15 alpha OH, also 7 alpha OH (which is a member of the P450IIA sub-family), but it did not inhibit human 15 alpha OH or other testosterone hydroxylases. In mouse liver microsomes, metyrapone preferentially inhibited 15 alpha OH, but in human liver microsomes it inhibited all testosterone hydroxylations measured, including 15 alpha OH (IC50 = 2.0-5.0 microM). Metyrapone clearly inhibited COH in mouse liver microsomes, but interestingly it had no effect on COH activity in human liver microsomes, although these two isozymes have earlier been shown to be immunologically similar. On the basis of available evidence human and mouse P450Coh isozymes seem to be orthologous enzymes whereas the present results indicate that the human 15 alpha OH is different from the mouse P45015 alpha.
7457982	Renal fluoride excretion and plasma fluoride levels during and after enflurane anesthesia are dependent on urinary pH.	To determine the effects of urinary pH on fluoride ion excretion and the resulting plasma fluoride concentration during and after enflurane anesthesia, renal function, plasma inorganic fluoride levels, and fluoride excretion were studied in two groups of patients pretreated with either NH4Cl or acetazolamide to produce acidic or alkaline urine, respectively. During anesthesia, urinary flow rate, inulin clearance (Cin) and para-aminohippurate (PAH) clearance (CPAH) were 7, 61, and 43 per cent of control values in the acidic-urine group and 22, 74, and 57 per cent of control values in the alkaline-urine group, respectively. Fractional fluoride clearances (CF/CIN) during anesthesia and operation were 0.06 +/- 0.05 in the acidic-urine group (urinary pH 5.08) and 0.68 +/- 0.23 in the alkaline-urine group (urinary pH 8.16). Values of total fluoride excretion during the same period were 0.06 +/- 0.04 mg and 0.87 +/- 0.29 mg, respectively. Mean maximal plasma levels of fluoride were 26.3 +/- 7.3 microM in the acidic-urine group and 13.5 +/- 2.4 microM in the alkaline-urine group. The differences between groups in fluoride clearance, fluoride excretion, and plasma fluoride levels were all statistically significant. The data clearly show that renal fluoride clearance is closely related to urinary pH.
23316029	Differentiating medicinal from illicit use in positive methamphetamine results in a pain population.	In addition to illicit methamphetamine, there are prescription and over-the-counter medications that, if ingested, may yield positive methamphetamine (MAMP) results on laboratory urine drug tests. The purpose of the study is to estimate the prevalence of medicinal and illicit MAMP in the pain population using chiral analysis to determine the relative amounts of the d and l-MAMP enantiomers. This retrospective analysis included the LC-MS/MS results and prescriber provided medication histories of 485,889 de-identified urine specimens from patients treated for pain. Two groups of 100 specimens each were subjected to chiral analysis. Group 1 contained specimens that were MAMP positive and amphetamine negative. Group 2 contained randomly selected MAMP positive specimens. The overall MAMP positivity rate of the 485,889 specimens tested was 1.6%. The prevalence of MAMP medications based on reported medications and detection of l-MAMP in Group 1 and Group 2 was 44% and 6%, respectively. These data indicate that the use of both illicit and medicinal MAMP is found in this patient population, and that medicinal use is underreported in clinical histories. Therefore, clinical laboratories should provide on request chiral analysis to aid in differentiating illicit and medicinal MAMP.
16381669	Novel metabolites of buprenorphine detected in human liver microsomes and human urine.	The in vitro metabolism of buprenorphine was investigated to explore new metabolic pathways and identify the cytochromes P450 (P450s) responsible for the formation of these metabolites. The resulting metabolites were identified by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. In addition to norbuprenorphine, two hydroxylated buprenorphine (M1 and M2) and three hydroxylated norbuprenorphine (M3, M4, and M5) metabolites were produced by human liver microsomes (HLMs), with hydroxylation occurring at the tert-butyl group (M1 and M3) and at unspecified site(s) on the ring moieties (M2, M4, and M5). Time course and other data suggest that buprenorphine is N-dealkylated to form norbuprenorphine, followed by hydroxylation to form M3; buprenorphine is hydroxylated to form M1 and M2, followed by N-dealkylation to form M3 and M4 or M5. The involvement of selected P450s was investigated using cDNA-expressed P450s coupled with scaling models, chemical inhibition, monoclonal antibody (MAb) analysis, and correlation studies. The major enzymes involved in buprenorphine elimination and norbuprenorphine and M1 formation were P450s 3A4, 3A5, 3A7, and 2C8, whereas 3A4, 3A5, and 3A7 produced M3 and M5. Based on MAb analysis and chemical inhibition, the contribution of 2C8 was higher in HLMs with higher 2C8 activity, whereas 3A4/5 played a more important role in HLMs with higher 3A4/5 activity. Examination of human urine from subjects taking buprenorphine showed the presence of M1 and M3; most of M1 was conjugated, whereas 60 to 70% of M3 was unconjugated.
8844425	Simultaneous determination of rufloxacin, fenbufen and felbinac in human plasma using high-performance liquid chromatography.	A simple, specific and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method has been developed for the simultaneous determination of rufloxacin, fenbufen and felbinac in human plasma. Plasma, spiked with internal standard, was vortex-mixed for 1 min with a mixture of dichloromethane-diethyl ether (80:20, v/v). The evaporated extract was dissolved in 0.02 M NaOH. Drugs were resolved at room temperature on a 5 microns Zorbax SAX column (250 x 4.6 mm I.D.) equipped with a 20 x 4.6 mm anion-exchange Vydac AXGU (10 microns particle size) precolumn. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile and phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), delivered at a flow-rate of 1.2 ml/min. Detection was made at 280 nm. 2-[4-(2'-Furoyl)phenyl]propionic acid was used as internal standard. The calibration curve was linear from 0.2 to 10 micrograms/ml for rufloxacin, from 0.5 to 30 micrograms/ml for fenbufen and from 0.2 to 10 micrograms/ml for felbinac, respectively. The detection limit was 0.1 microgram/ml for rufloxacin, 0.3 microgram/ml for fenbufen and 0.1 microgram/ml for felbinac, respectively.
17007897	Relationships between biomarkers of exposure and toxicokinetics in Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice administered single doses of acrylamide and glycidamide and multiple doses of acrylamide.	Acrylamide (AA) is a widely studied industrial chemical that is neurotoxic, mutagenic to somatic and germ cells and carcinogenic in rodents. AA is also formed in many commonly consumed starchy foods during cooking. Our previous toxicokinetic investigations of AA and its important genotoxic metabolite, glycidamide (GA), in rodents showed that AA is highly bioavailable from oral routes of administration, is widely distributed to tissues and that the dietary route, in particular, favors metabolism to GA. Measurements of DNA adducts in many tissues supported the hypothesis that AA is carcinogenic in rodent bioassays through metabolism to GA. The current investigation describes the development and validation of methodology for measuring hemoglobin (Hb) adducts with AA and GA in the same rodents previously used for toxicokinetic and DNA adduct measurements. The goal was to investigate possible relationships between these circulating biomarkers of exposure and serum toxicokinetic parameters for AA and GA and tissue GA-DNA adducts in rodents from both single and repeated dosing with AA. Significant correlations were observed between GA-Hb and liver GA-DNA adducts for either single or multiple dosing regimens with AA. Using available GA-Hb adduct data, empirical and allometric relationships permitted estimation of liver DNA adducts in humans in the range of 0.06-0.3 adducts/10(8) nucleotides. This approach may prove useful in extrapolating human cancer risks from findings in rodent bioassays.
16959134	Hidden aconite poisoning: identification of yunaconitine and related aconitum alkaloids in urine by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Poisoning from aconite occurs worldwide as a result of misuse of the potent plant. Laboratory investigation into suspected intoxication cases is challenging because the content of toxic aconitum alkaloids varies depending on the plant source, market processing, dosing protocol, hydrolytic degradation, and metabolic transformation. Using a triple-quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer, a group screening method was developed based on the mass-fragmentographic scheme of common aconitum alkaloids. The precursor-ion scans of m/z 105 and 135 permitted selective profiling of 14-O-benzoyl-norditerpenoids and the 14-O-anisoyl-norditerpenoids, respectively. Gradient reversed-phase liquid chromatography minimized coelution of isobaric compounds. The screening protocol was applied to a clinical investigation of suspected herbal poisoning. In total, 15 urine samples were thus screened positive for aconitum alkaloid over 5 years. The diagnoses of aconite poisoning in 11 patients were firmly established based on the known prescription history and the positive urine finding. In four patients, without aconitum herbs being listed in the herbal prescriptions, contamination of the herbal remedies by aconite was suspected to be the hidden cause of their acute poisoning. Yunaconitne, a highly toxic aconitum alkaloid, was thus identified in human urine for the first time. The group screening method of aconitum alkaloids in urine is an important diagnostic aid for acute poisoning by aconites of an unclear origin.
12407434	Relationship between irreversible alopecia and exposure to cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin (CTC) in high-dose chemotherapy.	Reversible alopecia is a commonly observed, important and distressing complication of chemotherapy. Permanent alopecia, however, is rare after standard-dose therapy, but has occasionally been observed after high-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin (CTC). We evaluated the relationships between total exposure to these three compounds and their different metabolites in the high-dose CTC regimen, and the subsequent development of irreversible alopecia. Twenty-four patients received two or three courses of high-dose CTC, each followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation. Plasma levels of cyclophosphamide, its active metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, thiotepa, its active metabolite tepa, and carboplatin were determined, and the area-under-the-plasma concentration-versus-time curves (AUC) of the compounds were calculated. Eight of the 24 patients included in the study developed permanent alopecia, while seven had normal hair regrowth and nine patients developed incomplete and/or thin hair regrowth. The carboplatin AUC and the summed AUC of thiotepa and tepa were both significantly associated with increasing irreversibility of hair loss. These results suggest that high exposure to carboplatin and the sum of the thiotepa and tepa exposure may lead to the development of permanent alopecia. This knowledge could guide therapeutic drug monitoring in order to prevent the occurrence of permanent alopecia and thereby improve the patients' quality of life.
16192112	Prediction of oral clearance from in vitro metabolic data using recombinant CYPs: comparison among well-stirred, parallel-tube, distributed and dispersion models.	Intrinsic clearances (CLint-HLM-total) for the metabolism of NE-100, metoprolol, clarithromycin (CAM), lornoxicam and tenoxicam were predicted from in vitro data with recombinant cytochorme P450s (CYPs) using relative activity factor (RAF) and then compared with CLint-HLM observed in human liver microsomes (HLM). The predicted CLint-HLM-total correlated well with the observed CLint-HLM in HLM. When oral clearances (CLoral) of low-clearance drugs such as metoprolol, CAM, lornoxicam and tenoxicam were predicted from the in vitro data using four physiological models (well-stirred, parallel tube, distributed and dispersion models), the predicted CLoral corresponded well with the observed CLoralin vivo and were similar among the four models. For a high-clearance drug, the predicted CLoral of NE-100 in extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers (EMs) was substantially different between individual models, although the predicted CLoral in a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6 (PMs) was similar. The CLoral ratio of NE-100 between the EMs and the PMs predicted from the dispersion model, which leads to a reliable prediction for the high-clearance drug, was 48.4, but the ratio decreased depending on the increase of the NE-100 plasma concentration. The results suggest that the CLoral decrease in the EMs is caused by saturation of NE-100 metabolism mediated by CYP2D6 and is based on increases in plasma NE-100 concentrations dependent on the dose of NE-100. The study suggests that the RAF and the in vitro-in vivo scaling approaches are useful for predicting CLoral from in vitro data with recombinant CYPs without using HLM and hepatocytes.
12660312	Human pharmacology of ayahuasca: subjective and cardiovascular effects, monoamine metabolite excretion, and pharmacokinetics.	The effects of the South American psychotropic beverage ayahuasca on subjective and cardiovascular variables and urine monoamine metabolite excretion were evaluated, together with the drug's pharmacokinetic profile, in a double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. This pharmacologically complex tea, commonly obtained from Banisteriopsis caapi and Psychotria viridis, combines N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT), an orally labile psychedelic agent showing 5-hydroxytryptamine2A agonist activity, with monoamine oxidase (MAO)-inhibiting beta-carboline alkaloids (harmine, harmaline, and tetrahydroharmine). Eighteen volunteers with prior experience in the use of psychedelics received single oral doses of encapsulated freeze-dried ayahuasca (0.6 and 0.85 mg of DMT/kg of body weight) and placebo. Ayahuasca produced significant subjective effects, peaking between 1.5 and 2 h, involving perceptual modifications and increases in ratings of positive mood and activation. Diastolic blood pressure showed a significant increase at the high dose (9 mm Hg at 75 min), whereas systolic blood pressure and heart rate were moderately and nonsignificantly increased. Cmax values for DMT after the low and high ayahuasca doses were 12.14 ng/ml and 17.44 ng/ml, respectively. Tmax (median) was observed at 1.5 h after both doses. The Tmax for DMT coincided with the peak of subjective effects. Drug administration increased urinary normetanephrine excretion, but, contrary to the typical MAO-inhibitor effect profile, deaminated monoamine metabolite levels were not decreased. This and the negligible harmine plasma levels found suggest a predominantly peripheral (gastrointestinal and liver) site of action for harmine. MAO inhibition at this level would suffice to prevent first-pass metabolism of DMT and allow its access to systemic circulation and the central nervous system.
11317475	Cytochrome P450 isoforms involved in melatonin metabolism in human liver microsomes.	The present study was carried out to identify the cytochrome P450 enzyme(s) involved in the 6-hydroxylation and O-demethylation of melatonin. The formation kinetics of 6-hydroxymelatonin and N-acetylserotonin were determined using human liver microsomes and cDNA yeast-expressed human enzymes (CYP1A2, 2C9 and 2C19) over the substrate concentration range 1-1000 microM. Selective inhibitors and substrates of various cytochrome P450 enzymes were also employed. Fluvoxamine was a potent inhibitor of 6-hydroxymelatonin formation, giving 50 +/- 5% and 69 +/- 9% inhibition at concentrations of 1 microM and 10 microM, respectively, after incubation with 50 microM melatonin. Furafylline, sulphaphenazole and omeprazole used at low and high concentrations substantially inhibited both metabolic pathways. cDNA yeast-expressed CYP1A2, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 catalysed the formation of the two metabolites, confirming the data obtained with specific inhibitors and substrates. Our results strongly suggest that 6-hydroxylation, the main metabolic pathway of melatonin, is mediated mainly, but not exclusively, by CYP1A2, the high-affinity enzyme involved in melatonin metabolism, confirming the observation that a single oral dose of fluvoxamine increases nocturnal serum melatonin levels in healthy subjects. Furthermore, the results indicate that there is a potential for interaction with drugs metabolised by CYP1A2 both at physiological levels and after oral administration of melatonin, while CYP2C19 and CYP2C9 are assumed to be less important.
19766064	Development and validation of a sensitive gas chromatography-ammonia chemical ionization mass spectrometry method for the determination of tabun enantiomers in hemolysed blood and plasma of different species.	The aim of this study was to develop and validate a fast, sensitive and easily applicable GC-MS assay for the chiral quantification of the highly toxic organophosphorus compound tabun (O-ethyl-N,N-dimethylphosphoramidocyanidate, GA) in hemolysed swine blood for further use in toxicokinetic and toxicodynamic studies. These requirements were fulfilled best by a GC-MS assay with positive chemical ionization with ammonia (GC-PCI-MS). Separation was carried out on a beta-cyclodextrin capillary column (Supelco BetaDex 225) after reversed phase (C18) solid-phase extraction. The limit of detection was 1 pg/ml for each enantiomer (approximately 500 fg on column) and the limit of quantification 5 pg/ml. The GC-PCI-MS method was applied for the quantification of tabun enantiomers in spiked swine blood after hemolysis and in spiked plasma of different species including humans.
16044112	Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine concentrations in human breast milk samples determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Buprenorphine (BUP) is considered to be safe during pregnancy. However, the extent of BUP transfer into breast milk has not been investigated thoroughly. Because the drug concentration in the milk is 1 of the determinants in the assessment of the exposure risk, a rapid and sensitive LC-MS/MS method has been developed and evaluated to measure BUP and norbuprenorphine (norBUP) concentrations in milk. A solid-phase and 2 liquid-liquid extraction procedures have been compared. The lower limits of detection and quantification were 0.05 ng/mL and 0.18 ng/mL for BUP and 0.05 ng/mL and 0.20 ng/mL for norBUP, respectively, using a sample volume of 0.5 mL milk. BUP and norBUP concentrations determined from 10 random breast milk samples collected over 4 successive days from a lactating woman during buprenorphine maintenance therapy ranged from 1.0 to 14.7 and 0.6 to 6.3 ng/mL, respectively. Drug exposure of the infant may be considered to be low. Further investigations may seek to extend these preliminary findings to evaluate an infant's level of BUP exposure through breast milk.
21073812	Trazodone, meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (an hallucinogenic drug and trazodone metabolite), and the hallucinogen trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine cross-react with the EMITII ecstasy immunoassay in urine.	A series of patients whose urine screened positive for 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) using a commercial enzyme immunoassay test (Ecstasy EMIT II assay), failed to confirm by substance-specific liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry tests for MDMA. Further evaluation of these urine specimens indicates that they were positive for trazodone and its metabolite meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP). Independent tests of standards showed significant crossreactivity on the Ecstasy EMIT II assay with trazodone, m-CPP, and the related recreational drug trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP). This is of further forensic significance because m-CPP is emerging as an illicit recreational drug in its own right or as an adulterant in illicit cocaine and MDMA. The hallucinogen benzylpiperazine was also assessed but found not to cross-react significantly with this assay. Patients taking trazodone may get false-positive results on the urine EMIT test for MDMA.
21194606	A bioequivalence comparison of two formulations of rifampicin (300- vs 150-mg capsules): An open-label, randomized, two-treatment, two-way crossover study in healthy volunteers.	Rifampicin is a semisynthetic antibiotic derivative of rifamycin used worldwide for the treatment of various forms of tuberculosis. The objective of this study was to compare, under fasting conditions in healthy volunteers, the rate and extent of absorption of a generic rifampicin capsule in oral dosage form versus the proprietary equivalent formulation for the purpose of registration approval of the test formulation. This was an open-label, randomized, 2-treatment, 2-way crossover study with an 8-week washout period between the 2 study arms. Healthy volunteers received a 300-mg capsule of the test formulation (Idaman Pharma Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.) or two 150-mg capsules of the reference formulation. Blood samples were collected predose and at 45 minutes and 1.25, 1.5, 2, 2.25, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hours postdose. Plasma concentrations of rifampicin and its metabolite, 25-desacetyl rifampicin, were analyzed using a validated HPLC method. The formulations were considered bioequivalent if the 90% CIs for C(max) and AUC were within the predetermined bioequivalence range (80%-125%, according to the guidelines of the US Food and Drug Administration, or 75%-133% for Cmax only, as set by the European Commission-European Medicines Agency and the National Pharmaceutical Control Bureau of Malaysia). Tolerability was assessed by verbally questioning subjects regarding their well-being and any feelings of discomfort. All events reported by the subjects (serious or mild) were recorded on adverse-event forms. Fourteen healthy subjects (10 males, 4 females) with a mean age of 22.6 years (range, 20-28 years) and a mean body mass index of 22.2 kg/m (range, 18.3-29.9 kg/m) were enrolled in the study; all 14 completed the trial as outlined in the protocol. The mean values for C(max), T(max) , AUC, and AUC()) with the test formulation of rifampicin were 7.20 g/mL, 1.32 hours, 37.12 g/mL  h, and 39.69 g/mL  h, respectively; for the reference formulation, the values were 7.65 g/mL, 1.71 hours, 38.92 g/mL  h, and 42.24 g/ mL  h. For 25-desacetyl rifampicin, the mean values for C(max), T(max), AUC, and AUC()) with the test formulation were 0.63 g/mL, 3.45 hours, 4.92 g/mL  h, and 6.27 g/mL  h; for the reference formulation, the values were 0.7 g/mL, 3.27 hours, 5.23 g/mL  h, and 6.84 g/mL  h. For rifampicin, the 90% CIs for the test formulation/reference formulation ratio for the logarithmic transformations of both C(max) and AUC()) were within the bioequivalence limit of 80% to 125% (80.9109.7 and 80.7-103.2, respectively). For 25-desacetyl rifampicin, the 90% CI for the test formulation/reference formulation ratio for the logarithmic transformations of AUC (80.0-104.7) was within the bioequivalence limit of 80% to 125%. However, the 90% CI for C(max) (78.4-102.2) was outside this limit but still within the acceptance limit for Cmax when adhering to the bioequivalence range of 75% to 133%. No adverse events were reported during the study. This study found that the 300-mg test capsule and the 150-mg reference capsules of rifampicin met the regulatory criteria for assuming bioequivalence in these fasting healthy volunteers. Both formulations appeared to be well tolerated in the population studied.
11499888	Importance of vacutainer selection in forensic toxicological analysis of drugs of abuse.	The enzymatic degradation of cocaine in blood samples, even during transport to a forensic laboratory, is a common problem in toxicological analysis. This can be avoided by the use of blood-sampling devices such as gray-top Vacutainers containing the cholinesterase inhibitor sodium fluoride. In the present study, which included 147 authentic cases, blood samples were collected into two different tubes, one containing fluoride/oxalate and one without stabilizing agents. In all cases, both samples were analyzed for drugs of abuse using Abbott FPIA immunoassays after precipitation and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) for quantitative analysis. The cannabinoid immunoassay showed markedly lower values in the fluoride-containing samples; this was investigated further and could be explained by hemolysis of these samples. In addition, the concentrations of 11-nor-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid (THCCOOH) were lower in these samples. A stability study with the THCCOOH acyl glucuronide showed that it is unstable in unpreserved serum, which could explain our observation. GC-MS quantitative data for amphetamine and derivatives, opiates, delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, and 11-hydroxy-delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol were essentially identical; however, they also differed substantially for cocaine, cocaethylene, ecgonine methylester, and benzoylecgonine. Unexpectedly, the concentrations of benzoylecgonine in unpreserved serum were almost half as high as in the fluoride-containing samples.
6464500	The metabolic fate of [14C]oxaprotiline.HCl in man. I. Disposition and preliminary pharmacokinetics.	Absorption, biotransformation and elimination of [14C]oxaprotiline.HCl have been studied after oral administration of 50 mg doses to two human subjects. Absorption was complete, and peak blood concn. of total 14C were 590 and 297 ng equiv./ml after 3-6 h in the two subjects. After 11 days, 84 and 90% dose was excreted in urine, and a total of 98% was excreted. Peak blood concn. of unchanged oxaprotiline were 16 and 19 ng/ml before, and 167 and 207 ng/ml after enzymic hydrolysis. The blood half-life in the two subjects was 23 and 29 h. The blood concn. of the desmethyl metabolite was low (2 ng equiv./ml), but also increased after hydrolysis (11-19 ng equiv./ml). Oxaprotiline was bound (83%) in vitro to serum proteins. Sixty per cent was bound to serum albumin and 20% to alpha 1-acid glycoprotein. In urine only 1% of total 14C was present as unchanged oxaprotiline, and 0.2% as the desmethyl metabolite. After enzymic hydrolysis these increased to 48 and 6%, respectively, and after acid hydrolysis to 85 and 10%.
2352161	Pharmacokinetics of falipamil after intravenous administration to humans.	Falipamil (2-[3-[3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenetylmethylamino]propyl]-5,6- dimethoxyphthalamidine; 1) is a new specific bradycardic agent for the treatment of sinus tachycardia. Pharmacokinetics of falipamil in humans (n = 6) was determined in plasma and urine after iv administration of 100 mg (1.85 MBq) per person of 14C-labeled drug by liquid scintillation counting and by a specific, sensitive reversed-phase totally automated HPLC system with fluorimetric detection. Recovery of total radioactivity was 91.8 +/- 3.7%, with 68.2 +/- 4.3% in urine and 23.6 +/- 2.5% in the feces. The majority of radioactivity was excreted within 24 to 48 h. The parent drug, falipamil (1), and its N-desmethyl-metabolite (2), which is approximately 100 times less active than 1, contributed 14.1 +/- 1.6 and 4.5 +/- 0.7%, respectively, of the dose to urinary excretion. Plasma protein binding of 1 and 2 was 87.9 +/- 1.2 (concentration range: 2000-8000 ng/mL) and 89.7 +/- 0.5% (concentration range: 62.5-1000 ng/mL), respectively. Plasma concentrations of 1 peaked at 2 min at 724 +/- 173 ng/mL, declined biphasically, and were fitted to a two-compartment open model. Plasma concentrations of 2 were very low, in all cases ranging from 0 to 35 ng/mL. The dominant terminal half-life (beta-phase) of 1 from plasma was 1.8 +/- 0.6 h (range 1.4-2.9 h), mean residence time was 2.4 +/- 0.4 h, total body clearance was 1108.5 +/- 119 mL/min, and renal clearance was 117 +/- 20 mL/min. All parameters demonstrated very low intersubject variability.
12067243	Rapid internal acyl migration and protein binding of synthetic probenecid glucuronides.	Internal acyl migration reactions of drug 1-O-acyl-beta-D-glucopyranuronates (1beta-acyl glucuronides) are of interest because of their possible role in covalent binding to proteins and consequent adverse effects. The reactivity of the synthetic probenecid 1beta-acyl glucuronide (PRG), the principal metabolite of probenecid (PR) in humans, has been investigated in terms of acyl migration, hydrolysis, and covalent binding to proteins in phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) and human plasma at 37 degrees C. PRG primarily degraded by acyl migration according to apparent first-order kinetics and the 2-, 3-, and 4-acyl isomers sequentially appeared as both alpha- and beta-anomeric forms. In addition, small amounts of PRG and extremely labile 1alpha-acyl isomer existed in the equilibrated mixture favoring the 2alpha/beta-acyl isomer, that provided significant information regarding the mechanism of acyl migration. All of the positional isomers and anomers were characterized using preparative HPLC and NMR spectroscopy. Acyl migration was observed to predominate over hydrolysis in both media although the extent of hydrolysis in plasma was larger than that in the buffer. The overall degradation half-lives (h) in the buffer and plasma were 0.27 +/- 0.003 and 0.17 +/- 0.007, respectively. The covalent binding rapidly proceeded mainly via the Schiff's base mechanism and reached a plateau after 2 h of incubation. The maximal binding was 146 +/- 4.8 pmol/mg of protein, and ca. 10% of the initial concentration of PRG. These results indicated that PRG is most labile and susceptible to acyl migration of all the drug acyl glucuronides reported to date in the physiological conditions, and highly reactive to plasma proteins, that could provide a possible explanation for the immunologically based adverse effects of PR.
18383206	A generic method to detect electrophilic intermediates using isotopic pattern triggered data-dependent high-resolution accurate mass spectrometry.	A need still exists for a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method that can detect broad classes of glutathione (GSH) conjugates and provide characterization of their structures. We now describe the development of a method that multiplexes high-resolution accurate mass analysis with isotope pattern triggered data-dependent product ion scans, for simultaneous detection and structural elucidation of GSH conjugates within a single analysis using a LTQ/Orbitrap. This method was initially developed to detect GSH conjugates generated from incubating 10 microM test compound with pooled human liver microsomes fortified with NADPH-regenerating system and a 2:1 ratio of 5 mM glutathione and [(13)C(2) (15)N-Gly]glutathione. The GSH conjugates were detected by isotope search of mass defect filtered and control subtracted full scan accurate MS data using MetWorks software. This was followed by elucidation of reactive intermediate structures using chemical formulae for both protonated molecules and their product ions from accurate masses in a single analysis. The mass accuracies measured for the precursor and product ions by the Orbitrap were <2 ppm in external mass calibration mode. Successful detection and characterization of GSH conjugates of acetaminophen, tienilic acid, clozapine, ticlopidine and mifepristone validated this method. In each case, the detected GSH conjugates were within the top five hits by isotope search. This method also has a broader detection capability since it is independent of the collision-induced dissociation behavior of the GSH conjugates. Furthermore, this method is amenable to a broad class of reactive intermediate trapping agents as exemplified by the simultaneous detection and structural elucidation of the cyano-N-methylene iminium ion conjugates of verapamil and its O-desmethyl metabolites, which we report for the first time. In addition to the chemically tagged reactive intermediates, this method also provides information on stable metabolites from the full scan accurate MS data.
20812206	Rapid ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for quantification of oxcarbazepine and its metabolite in human plasma.	A rapid and sensitive ultraperformance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry assay was developed for the simultaneous analysis of oxcarbazepine and its main metabolite in human plasma. The assay involves a simple solid-phase extraction procedure of 0.3mL of human plasma and analysis was performed on a triple-quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer in multiple reaction monitoring mode via electrospray ionization. Separation was achieved on an Acquity UPLC BEH C column (502.1mm, i.d., 1.7m) with isocratic elution at a flow-rate of 0.25mL/min and imipramine was used as the internal standard. The standard calibration curve was linear over the range 9.580-5070.205ng/mL for oxcarbazepine (OXC) and 19.444-10290.800ng/mL for 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine (MHD), expressed by the linear correlation coefficient r, which was better than 0.995 for OXC and MHD. The intra- and inter-day precision and accuracy of the quality control samples were within 10.0%. The recoveries were 81.0, 89.6 and 66.6% for OXC, MHD and imipramine, respectively. The total run time was 1.5 min only for each sample, which makes it possible to analyze more than 350 samples per day.
2219959	Conjugation of chemical carcinogens by primary cultures of human hepatocytes.	1. The conjugation of benzo[a]pyrene (BP) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) was investigated in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Human hepatocytes conjugated 12.5-63% of the BP and 1.7-52% of the AAF to sulphates and glucuronides over a thousand-fold concentration range. 2. BP is conjugated to glucuronides from non-detectable levels to 50%, and to sulphates from non-detectable levels to 30%. The major conjugated metabolites are the highly polar metabolites. 3. AAF is conjugated to glucuronides from 1.5 to 51% and to sulphates from 0.2 to 12%. The C-hydroxylated AAF metabolites were conjugated to glucuronides more than N-hydroxy AAF and aminofluorene metabolites.
15601807	Examination of 209 drugs for inhibition of cytochrome P450 2C8.	Cytochrome P450 2C8 is involved in the metabolism of drugs such as paclitaxel, repaglinide, rosiglitazone, and cerivastatin, among others. An in vitro assessment of 209 frequently prescribed drugs and related xenobiotics was carried out to examine their potential to inhibit CYP2C8. A validated sensitive, moderate-throughput high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) assay was used to detect N-desethylamodiaquine, the CYP2C8-derived major metabolite of amodiaquine metabolism, using heterologously expressed recombinant CYP2C8 (rhCYP2C8) and pooled human liver microsomes. The 209 drugs were first tested at 30 muM for their ability to inhibit rhCYP2C8. Forty-eight compounds exhibited greater than 50% inhibition and were further evaluated for measurement of IC50. The six most potent inhibitors (IC50 <1 microM) from this set were measured for IC50 in pooled human liver microsomes, and the most potent inhibitor identified was the leukotriene receptor antagonist, montelukast (IC50 = 19.6 nM). Inhibitors of CYP2C8 were identified from a wide variety of therapeutic classes, with no single class predominating. Other potent inhibitors included candesartan cilexetil (cyclohexylcarbonate ester prodrug of candesartan), zafirlukast, clotrimazole, felodipine, and mometasone furoate. Seventeen moderate inhibitors of rhCYP2C8 (1 < IC50 < 10 microM) included salmeterol, raloxifene, fenofibrate, ritonavir, levothyroxine, tamoxifen, loratadine, quercetin, oxybutynin, medroxyprogesterone, simvastatin, ketoconazole, ethinyl estradiol, spironolactone, lovastatin, nifedipine, and irbesartan. These in vitro data were used along with clinical pharmacokinetic information in predicting potential drug-drug interactions that could occur by inhibition of CYP2C8. Although almost all drugs tested are not expected to cause drug interactions via inhibition of CYP2C8, montelukast was identified as being of concern as a potential inhibitor of clinical relevance. These findings are discussed in context to potential drug interactions that could be observed between these agents and drugs for which CYP2C8 is involved in metabolism and warrant investigation of the possibility of clinical drug interactions mediated by inhibition of this enzyme.
14967000	In vitro metabolism of 2-acetylbenzothiophene: relevance to zileuton hepatotoxicity.	Zileuton, an inhibitor of 5-lipooxygenase, the initial enzyme in the leukotriene pathway, was marketed as a new treatment for asthma. This drug has been associated with liver toxicity, which has limited its clinical usefulness. We provide evidence here that the liver toxicity likely involves a sequence of biotransformations leading to 2-acetylbenzothiophene (2-ABT), which is subsequently metabolized to give a reactive intermediate(s). In vitro experiments with the human lymphoblast MCL5 cell line demonstrated that 2-ABT is cytotoxic in a P450-dependent manner. Human liver microsome (HLM) incubations with 2-ABT revealed the formation of two short-lived oxidized species, "M + 16" and "M + 32". Both of these metabolites formed adducts in the presence of GSH or NAC. Singly oxidized M + 16 adducts, from either GSH or NAC, appeared to be unstable in acidic medium and eliminated water readily to form a new compound. Authentic synthetic standards demonstrated that 2-ABT-S-oxide M1 corresponded to the M + 16 metabolite and that the S-oxide underwent nucleophilic addition with GSH and NAC to produce the singly oxidized adducts observed in HLM. The S-oxide adducts readily eliminated water to form a rearomatized 2-ABT-GSH adduct or 2-ABT-NAC adduct. Coelution experiments with the synthetic standard confirmed the structure of the eliminated 2-ABT-NAC adduct C1. LC/MS analyses of urine samples collected from rats dosed with zileuton indicate that C1 is a metabolite of zileuton formed in vivo. The in vitro and in vivo data presented here demonstrate the formation of 2-ABT from zileuton and its further bioactivation to a potentially toxic metabolite.
20430547	Detection of JWH-018 metabolites in smoking mixture post-administration urine.	Smoking mixtures containing the cannabimimetic indoles may still be available over-the-counter in several countries. Due to the high affinity of these compounds to the cannabinoid receptors, their effective dose is lower than that of the marijuana products resulting in a low concentration of the excreted metabolites accompanied by a higher psychoactive potency. Up to now the in vivo metabolism of the cannabimimetic indoles seems to be insufficiently investigated and no data have been published on an assay of JWH-018 in urine. In this publication the urinary metabolites of JWH-018 are reported. Using gas and liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry two main monohydroxylated metabolites were identified in the forensic urine samples. Based on the differences in their electron ionization MS/MS spectra it is supposed that one is formed by hydroxylation of the indole ring whilst the other by hydroxylation of the N-alkyl chain. The main metabolites are almost completely glucuroconjugated, whereas minor ones (N-despentyl hydroxy-, carboxy-, dihydroxy-, and reduced di- and trihydroxy metabolites) were also present in the free fraction. The parent compound was not detected in urine.
15472229	Specificity and regioselectivity of the conjugation of estradiol, estrone, and their catecholestrogen and methoxyestrogen metabolites by human uridine diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases expressed in endometrium.	Uridine diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) inactivate and facilitate the excretion of estrogens to glucuronides (-G), the most abundant circulating estrogen conjugates. The identity of the conjugated estrogens formed by all known overexpressed UGTs (n = 16) was analyzed by comparison with retention time and mass fragmentation of authentic standards by HPLC tandem mass spectrometry methods. Six UGTs, namely 1A1, 1A3, 1A8, 1A9, 1A10, and 2B7, were found to glucuronidate estradiol (E(2)) and estrone (E(1)), their hydroxyls (OH), and their methoxy derivatives (MeO). Addition of glucuronic acid was catalyzed by specific UGTs at positions 2, 3, and 4 of the estrogens, whereas only E(2) was conjugated at position 17 by UGT2B7. Kinetic parameters indicate that the conjugation of E(2) at position 3 was predominantly catalyzed by 1A1, 1A3, and 1A8 and by 1A8 for E(1). Conjugation of 2-OHE(1)/E(2) and 2- and 4-MeOE(1)/E(2) was selective at position 3, mostly catalyzed by 1A1 and 1A8. Of all UGTs, UGT2B7 demonstrated the highest catalytic activities for estrogens and at least 10- to 50-fold higher activity for the conjugation of genotoxic 4-hydroxycatecholestrogens at position 4, compared with the conjugation of E(2), E(1), and 2-hydroxycatecholestrogens. Its presence was further shown in the endometrium by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, localizing in the same cells expressing CYP1B1, involved locally in the formation of 4-hydroxycatecholestrogens. Data show that several UGT enzymes detected in the endometrium are involved in the glucuronidation of E(2) and its 2-OH, 4-OH, and 2-MeO metabolites that exert various biological effects in the tissue.
12849689	Inhibition of aflatoxin B1 mutagenicity by cyclopiazonic acid in the presence of human liver preparations.	Co-occurrence of cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) and aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) has been reported in different food commodities. Recently, we have shown that CPA reduces AFB(1) mutagenicity in the standard Salmonella-Microsome-Assay using rat S9-mix for metabolic activation (Environ. Toxicol. Pharmacol. 11 (2002) 207). When using S9-mix prepared from individual liver fractions of human patients, CPA was found to be non-mutagenic, but exerted a significant reduction of the mutagenicity of AFB(1). Moreover, CPA was shown to inhibit testosterone hydroxylation, but not methoxyresorufin dealkylation (MROD), in human S9. Thus, the reduction of the AFB(1) mutagenicity by CPA may be attributed to the inhibitory effect of CPA on cytochrome P450 (CYP450) 3A4 activity. These findings might be of relevance to the epidemiology of food-borne mycotoxicosis as similar molar ratios to those investigated here have been reported in food commodities.
16541404	An automated and fully validated LC-MS/MS procedure for the simultaneous determination of 11 opioids used in palliative care, with 5 of their metabolites.	A fully validated liquid chromatographic procedure coupled with electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) is presented for quantitative determination of the opioids buprenorphine, codeine, fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, oxymorphone, piritramide, tilidine, and tramadol together with their metabolites bisnortilidine, morphine-glucuronides, norfentanyl, and nortilidine in blood plasma after an automatically performed solid-phase extraction (SPE). Separation was achieved in 35 min on a Phenomenex C12 MAX-RP column (4 microm, 150 x 2 mm) using a gradient of ammonium formiate buffer (pH 3.5) and acetonitrile. The validation data were within the required limits. The assay was successfully applied to authentic plasma samples, allowing confirmation of the diagnosis of overdose situations as well as monitoring of patients' compliance, especially in patients under palliative care.
19041885	Evidence of in vitro glucuronidation and enzymatic transformation of paralytic shellfish toxins by healthy human liver microsomes fraction.	Paralytic Shellfish Toxins (PST) are endemic components found in filter bivalves in Southern Chile. Post-mortems analysis of fluid and tissue samples has shown biotransformation of PST in humans. The Gonyautoxin 3 (GTX3) and Gonyautoxin 2 (GTX2) are the major PST components in the toxin profile found in Chilean shellfish extracts, being as much as 65% of the total content of PST in filter bivalves. Therefore, they are the major accountable components of the human intoxication by shellfish consumption. The aim of this study is to show in vitro glucuronidation and biotransformation of GTX3 and GTX2 when they are incubated with microsomal fraction isolated from healthy human livers. Microsomes fractions isolated from human livers were incubated with GTX3 and GTX2 purified from contaminated mussels. After different incubation times, incubated samples were extracted and analyzed by HPLC with fluorescent on line detection and HPLC-MS analysis. The results revealed that GTX3 and GTX2, only when they were incubated with microsomal fraction and appropriated cofactors, showed to be enzymatic transformed in vitro. The glucuronidation of GTX3 and GTX2 followed typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics, resulting in apparent kinetic parameters of Km=39.4+/-0.24 microM and Vmax=6.0x10(-3) pmol/min/mg protein. In addition, the microsomes fraction also oxidized GTX3 and GTX2 into Gonyautoxin 4 (GTX 4) and Gonyautoxin 1 (GTX 1) resulting in 0.339x10(-3) pmol/min/mg protein. In conclusion, this study reports oxidation and glucuronidation of GTX3 and GTX2 when they are incubated with human liver microsomal fraction. The metabolism occurs via a glucuronidation reaction, the basis first step of biotransformation in human liver. Also it is showed that GTX4 and GTX1 came by biotransformation from GTX3 and GTX2 in humans. This data confirm human biotransformation found in human post-mortem fluid and tissue samples described previously. This data is the first evidence of in vitro glucuronidation of PST, given a metabolic pathway of detoxification and excretion of PST in human.
8787790	Hair analysis for drugs of abuse. XI. Disposition of benzphetamine and its metabolites into hair and comparison of benzphetamine use and methamphetamine use by hair analysis.	In order to study the disposition of benzphetamine (BZP) and its metabolites, desmethyl benzphetamine (norBZP), p-hydroxy desmethyl benzphetamine (OHnorBZP), methamphetamine (MA) and amphetamine (AP), from plasma to hair in rats, an analytical method for identifying these drugs in plasma, urine and hair was developed with selected ion monitoring of gas chromatograph/mass spectrometry (GC/MS-SIM) results. After the intraperitoneal administration of BZP to rats (10 mg/kg/d, 10d, n = 3), concentrations of BZP and its metabolites in rat hair newly grown for 4 weeks were compared to the areas under the concentration versus time curve (AUCs) of these drugs in the rat plasma. The concentrations of BZP, norBZP, OHnorBZP, MA and AP in the rat hair were 14.8 +/- 1.4, 6.1 +/- 0.3, 2.6 +/- 0.5, 2.3 +/- 0.1 and 9.2 +/- 0.3 ng/mg, and the ratio of the concentrations in the hair to AUCs in the rat plasma was 3.0:0.1:0.1:0.6:0.2, respectively. This fact suggested that BZP tends to be readily incorporated into hair from blood. The method was applied to the determination of the metabolites in scalp hair and pubic hair of humans who orally ingested BZP (30 mg/d, 5d, n = 2). BZP, norBZP, MA and AP were detected at 0.14-0.56, 0.29-0.63, 0.10 and 1.06-1.66 ng/mg in the scalp hair and at 0.10-0.20, 0.13-0.18, trace-0.15 and 0.23 ng/mg in the pubic hair, respectively. It was shown that BZP use could be retrospectively distinguished from MA use by the detection of BZP and/or norBZP in hair.
21630281	Pharmacokinetics of SN2310, an injectable emulsion that incorporates a new derivative of SN-38 in patients with advanced solid tumors.	SN2310 is an injectable emulsion composed of vitamin E, a succinate derivative, as well as 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), the active metabolite of irinotecan. Single intravenous doses of 15, 20, 25, and 30 mg/m(2) of SN2310 emulsion were administered in a total of 26 patients with advanced solid malignancies. Serial blood samples were collected and concentrations of SN2310, SN-38, and SN-38 glucuronide were assayed. Mean systemic clearance of SN2310 ranged between 1.91 and 2.02 L/h/m(2) . Peak concentrations of SN-38 were observed at the end of infusion, suggesting a fast metabolic conversion of SN2310 to its active form, SN-38. Mean t1/2 values of SN-38 across the 20-30 mg/m(2) dose levels (131-199 h) were 33-55-fold longer than those observed for SN2310. The systemic exposure of SN-38 increased in a proportional manner over the dose range studied. SN2310 emulsion displayed an improved safety profile as compared with irinotecan. The most significant safety risk was neutropenia. Considering the rapid formation of SN-38, the proportional increase in exposure levels, and its longer elimination half-life, less frequent dosing of SN2310 emulsion may be considered for the treatment of patients with advanced solid malignancies.
21784001	Physiological modeling and derivation of the rat to human toxicokinetic uncertainty factor for the carbamate pesticide aldicarb.	Aldicarb (ALD, 2-methyl-2-(methylthio)-propionalaldehyde O-(methyl-carbamoyl) oxime, Temik) is widely used as an insecticide, nematocide and acaricide and it is oxidized to aldicarb sulfoxide (ALX) and aldicarb sulfone (ALU). Neither a toxicokinetic model nor an estimate of the target tissue dose of ALD and its metabolites in exposed organisms is available. The objective of this study was: (i) to develop a physiologically based toxicokinetic (PBTK) model for ALD in the rat and humans, and (ii) to determine the interspecies toxicokinetic uncertainty factor (UF(AH-TK)) of ALD. The model consists of a series of mass balance differential equations that describe the time course behavior of ALD in blood, liver, kidney, lungs, brain, fat, and rest of the body compartments. The physiological parameters of the model (blood flow rates, cardiac output, and tissue volumes) were obtained from the literature, while the maximum velocity (mg/kg/min) and the Michaelis constant (mg/l) for ALD oxidation in rats and humans were determined by in vitro AH-TK microsomal assays. The estimation of the tissue:blood partition coefficient was accomplished within the PBTK model by representing the tissues as a composite of neutral lipids, phospholipids and water, and providing the vegetable oil:water partition coefficient as input parameter. The validity of the rat PBTK model was assessed by comparing the model simulations of ALX time course blood concentrations and the inhibition patterns of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in erythrocytes and plasma obtained by administering rats ALD (0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg, iv). The human PBTK model was validated by comparing the simulations of AChE inhibition patterns in blood with human experimental data obtained from oral administrations of ALD. The UF(AH-TK) for ALD was determined by dividing the areas under the blood and brain concentration vs time curve (AUCCV, AUCCBR) for ALD and ALX in the rat and in human exposed to the same dose. The results indicate that with respect to parent chemical, equivalent applied doses in rats and humans result in a 9.5-fold difference in the AUC(CV) and AUC(AH-TK) respectively, in the two species, and 17-fold difference in the AUC(CV) and AUC(CBR) with respect to the metabolite. In other words, in order to have toxicokinetic equivalence in rats and humans, the former species must be exposed to a dose that is 9.5 and 17 times higher than the human with respect to the parent chemical and the metabolite respectively. Overall, the present study demonstrates the applicability of PBTK models in the quantitative evaluation of UH(AH-TK), and shows that their current default values are inaccurate, at least with respect to ALD, which has potential negative implications in the alleged protection of risk estimates derived from them.
12033517	Inhibition of human drug metabolizing cytochrome P450 by buprenorphine.	The effects of buprenorphine, a powerful mixed agonist/antagonist analgesic, on several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoform specific reactions in human liver microsomes were investigated to predict drug interaction of buprenorphine in vivo from in vitro data. The following eight CYP-catalytic reactions were used in this study: CYPlA1/2-mediated 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation, CYP2A6-mediated coumarin 7-hydroxylation, CYP2B6-mediated 7-benzyloxyresorufin O-debenzylation, CYP2C8/9-mediated tolbutamide methylhydroxylation, CYP2C19-mediated S-mephenytoin 4-hydroxylation, CYP2D6-mediated bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation, CYP2E1-mediated chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation, and CYP3A4-mediated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation. Buprenorphine strongly inhibited the CYP3A4- and CYP2D6-catalyzed reactions with Ki values of 14.7 microM and 21.4 microM, respectively. The analgesic also weakly inhibited specific reactions catalyzed by CYP1A1/2 (Ki=132 microM), CYP2B6 (Ki=133 microM), CYP2C19 (Ki=146 microM), CYP2C8/9 (IC50>300 microM), and CYP2E1 (IC50>300 microM), but not CYP2A6 mediated pathway. In consideration of the Ki values obtained in this study and the therapeutic concentration of buprenorphine in human plasma, buprenorphine would not be predicted to cause clinically significant interactions with other CYP-metabolized drugs.
3958920	Metabolic fate and solubility of triamterene--not an explanation for triamterene nephrolithiasis.	In an attempt to explain the triamterene stone diathesis, we studied the excretion and solubility of triamterene, 1, and its metabolite, the sulfate ester of the hydroxy derivative of triamterene, 3. The urinary excretion pattern and metabolism in stone formers was the same as in other chronic users of triamterene or healthy volunteers. The solubility of triamterene in urine was approximately one-half of its solubility in buffer solution, whereas the sulfate ester, 3, was nearly twice as soluble in urine as in the buffer solution. In the majority of the subjects studied, we found concentrations of 3 which approached or exceeded apparent solubility limits in urine. This was not true for triamterene where most measured urine concentrations were less than the apparent solubility as determined by equilibration. Alteration in the metabolism of triamterene is probably not a causative factor for triamterene nephrolithiasis. The saturation of urine with triamterene and especially with the sulfate ester, 3, may be related to stone formation, but other physical factors play a role in determining the relative amounts of drug found in calculus material.
16758263	Itraconazole, gemfibrozil and their combination markedly raise the plasma concentrations of loperamide.	Loperamide is biotransformed in vitro by the cytochromes P450 (CYP) 2C8 and 3A4 and is a substrate of the P-glycoprotein efflux transporter. Our aim was to investigate the effects of itraconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein, and gemfibrozil, an inhibitor of CYP2C8, on the pharmacokinetics of loperamide. In a randomized crossover study with 4 phases, 12 healthy volunteers took 100 mg itraconazole (first dose 200 mg), 600 mg gemfibrozil, both itraconazole and gemfibrozil, or placebo, twice daily for 5 days. On day 3, they ingested a single 4-mg dose of loperamide. Loperamide and N-desmethylloperamide concentrations in plasma were measured for up to 72 h and in urine for up to 48 h. Possible central nervous system effects of loperamide were assessed by the Digit Symbol Substitution Test and by subjective drowsiness. Itraconazole raised the peak plasma loperamide concentration (Cmax) 2.9-fold (range, 1.2-5.0; P < 0.001) and the total area under the plasma loperamide concentration-time curve (AUC(0-infinity)) 3.8-fold (1.4-6.6; P < 0.001) and prolonged the elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of loperamide from 11.9 to 18.7 h (P < 0.001). Gemfibrozil raised the Cmax of loperamide 1.6-fold (0.9-3.2; P < 0.05) and its AUC(0-infinity) 2.2-fold (1.0-3.7; P < 0.05) and prolonged its t(1/2) to 16.7 h (P < 0.01). The combination of itraconazole and gemfibrozil raised the Cmax of loperamide 4.2-fold (1.5-8.7; P < 0.001) and its AUC(0-infinity) 12.6-fold (4.3-21.8; P < 0.001) and prolonged the t(1/2) of loperamide to 36.9 h (P < 0.001). The amount of loperamide excreted into urine within 48 h was increased 3.0-fold, 1.4-fold and 5.3-fold by itraconazole, gemfibrozil and their combination, respectively (P < 0.05). Itraconazole, gemfibrozil and their combination reduced the plasma AUC(0-72) ratio of N-desmethylloperamide to loperamide by 65%, 46% and 88%, respectively (P < 0.001). No significant differences were seen in the Digit Symbol Substitution Test or subjective drowsiness between the phases. Itraconazole, gemfibrozil and their combination markedly raise the plasma concentrations of loperamide. Although not seen in the psychomotor tests used, an increased risk of adverse effects should be considered during concomitant use of loperamide with itraconazole, gemfibrozil and especially their combination.
17020957	A novel model for the prediction of drug-drug interactions in humans based on in vitro cytochrome p450 phenotypic data.	Ketoconazole has generally been used as a standard inhibitor for studying clinical pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions (DDIs) of drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A4/5. However, ketoconazole at therapeutic, high concentrations also inhibits cytochromes P450 (P450) other than CYP3A4/5, which has made the predictions of DDIs less accurate. Determining the in vivo inhibitor concentration at the enzymatic site is critical for predicting the clinical DDI, but it remains a technical challenge. Various approaches have been used in the literature to estimate the human hepatic free concentrations of this inhibitor, and application of those to predict DDIs has shown some success. In the present study, a novel approach using cryopreserved human hepatocytes suspended in human plasma was applied to mimic the in vivo concentration of ketoconazole at the enzymatic site. The involvement of various P450s in the metabolism of compounds of interest was quantitatively determined (reactive phenotyping). Likewise, the effect of ketoconazole on various P450s was quantitated. Using this information, P450-mediated change in the area under the curve has been predicted without the need of estimating the inhibitor concentrations at the enzyme active site or the K(i). This approach successfully estimated the magnitude of the clinical DDI of an investigational compound, MLX, which is cleared by multiple P450-mediated metabolism. It also successfully predicted the pharmacokinetic DDIs for several marketed drugs (theophylline, tolbutamide, omeprazole, desipramine, midazolam, alprazolam, cyclosporine, and loratadine) with a correlation coefficient (r(2)) of 0.992. Thus, this approach provides a simple method to more precisely predict the DDIs for P450 substrates when coadministered with ketoconazole or any other competitive P450 inhibitors in humans.
15788367	Cytochrome P450-dependent metabolism of gefitinib.	The in vitro metabolism of [(14)C]-gefitinib (1-3 microM) was investigated using human liver microsomes and a range of expressed human cytochrome P450 enzymes, with particular focus on the formation of O-desmethyl-gefitinib (M523595), the major metabolite observed in human plasma. High-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet light, radiochemical and mass spectral analysis, together with the availability of authentic standards, enabled quantification and structural identification of metabolites. On incubation with pooled human liver microsomes, [(14)C]-gefitinib underwent rapid and extensive metabolism to a number of metabolites, although M523595 was only a minor microsomal product. Formation of most metabolites was markedly decreased by ketoconazole, but M523595 production was inhibited only by quinidine. Gefitinib was metabolized extensively by expressed CYP3A4, producing a similar range of metabolites to liver microsomes, but M523595 was not formed. CYP1A2, 2C9 and 2C19 produced no measurable metabolism of gefitinib, while CYP3A5 produced a range of metabolites similar to CYP3A4, but to a much lower degree. In contrast, CYP2D6 catalysed rapid and extensive metabolism of gefitinib to M523595. While formation of M523595 was CYP2D6 mediated, the overall metabolism of gefitinib was dependent primarily on CYP3A4, and this was not obviously diminished in liver microsomes from CYP2D6 poor metabolizers.
19168542	Plasma and peritoneal concentration following continuous infusion of cefotaxime in patients with secondary peritonitis.	The aim of this study was to determine the steady-state plasma and peritoneal concentrations of cefotaxime and its metabolite desacetyl-cefotaxime administered by continuous infusion to critically ill patients with secondary peritonitis. In 11 patients, a continuous infusion of 4 g/24 h of cefotaxime following a bolus of 2 g was evaluated. Plasma and peritoneal levels of cefotaxime and desacetyl-cefotaxime were measured at steady state on days 2 and 3 (plasma) and on day 3 (peritoneal) by HPLC. Results are expressed as means +/- SD. Total and unbound plasma levels of cefotaxime were 24.0 +/- 21.5 and 20.3 +/- 19.8 mg/L on day 2 and 22.1 +/- 20.7 and 18.9 +/- 19.2 mg/L on day 3, respectively. Total and unbound levels of cefotaxime in the peritoneal fluids were 16.2 +/- 11.5 and 14.3 +/- 10.4 mg/L, respectively. The unbound fraction of plasma cefotaxime was 81.8 +/- 5.9% on day 2 and 82.6 +/- 7.7% on day 3, and the unbound fraction at the peritoneal site was 87.0 +/- 5.5% on day 3. Total and unbound plasma levels of desacetyl-cefotaxime were 9.0 +/- 8.1 and 8.4 +/- 8.1 mg/L on day 2 and 7.6 +/- 7.6 and 7.2 +/- 7.6 mg/L on day 3, respectively. Total and unbound levels of desacetyl-cefotaxime in the peritoneal fluids were 11.9 +/- 11.5 and 10.9 +/- 10.8 mg/L, respectively. The MICs for the enterobacteria recovered ranged from 0.016 to 0.25 mg/L. Continuous infusion of 4 g/24 h of cefotaxime provided a peritoneal concentration >5x MIC for the recovered Enterobacteriaceae and the susceptibility breakpoint of cefotaxime for facultative Gram-negative bacilli.
21956255	Pharmacokinetics of micafungin in HIV positive patients with confirmed esophageal candidiasis.	Esophageal candidiasis (EC) is a common and serious complication in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Micafungin has been shown to have dose-related efficacy and to be well tolerated in patients with HIV and EC. This analysis of data from a randomized, double-blind study examined pharmacokinetic parameters of micafungin (dosed at 50, 100, and 150 mg/day) and its metabolites in a subset of patients with HIV and EC. Micafungin exhibited linear, predictable pharmacokinetics, similar to the previous observations in healthy control subjects. Micafungin peak plasma concentration and exposure were increased with dose, while half-life and clearance remained consistent with increasing dose. Plasma concentrations of the metabolites M-1, M-2, and M-5 remained low throughout the study (24 h exposure 14% relative to micafungin at end of therapy for each). No differences in micafungin pharmacokinetic parameters were observed according to the sex or race of the patients. The high systemic exposures associated with micafungin 100 and 150 mg/day relative to micafungin 50 mg/day were found to directly correlate with endoscopic clearance. These data provide evidence that the pharmacokinetics of micafungin underlie the dose-related efficacy in patients with HIV and EC.
20685507	Bioequivalence and pharmacokinetic evaluation of two formulations of glimepiride 2 mg: a single-dose, randomized-sequence, open-label, two-way crossover study in healthy Chinese male volunteers.	Glimepiride is an oral sulfonylurea antihyperglycemic agent indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although there are reports in the literature regarding the pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of glimepiride, few data of PK parameters are available in a Chinese population; none are available regarding a recently developed generic formulation. To meet the requirements for marketing a new generic product in China, the study was designed to compare the PK properties and bioequivalence of 2-mg tablets of glimepiride: the newly developed generic formulation (test) and a branded formulation (reference) in healthy Chinese male volunteers. A single-dose, randomized-sequence, open-label, 2-way crossover study was conducted in fasted healthy Chinese male volunteers. Eligible participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive 1 tablet (2 mg each) of the test or reference formulation, followed by a 1-week washout period and administration of the alternate formulation. The study drugs were administered after a 10-hour overnight fast. Plasma samples were collected before study drug administration (baseline) and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, and 48 hours after study drug administration. Concentrations in plasma of the parent glimepiride and its M1 metabolite were analyzed with a LC-MS/MS method. The formulations were considered bioequivalent if the 90% CIs for the log-transformed values were within the predetermined equivalence range (70%-143% for C(max) and 80%-125% for AUC), according to the guidelines of the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) of China. Tolerability was based on the recording of adverse events (AEs), monitoring vital signs, ECGs, and laboratory tests at baseline and completion of the study. A total of 24 healthy Chinese male volunteers were enrolled and completed the study; however, only the data from 23 subjects were included (mean [SD] age, 23.6 [2.2] years [range, 18.6-26.9 years]; weight, 64.0 [8.4] kg [range, 52.0-82.0 kg]; and height, 172.3 [5.6] cm [range, 164.0-185.0 cm) in the PK and tolerability assessments due to a violation of the protocol. For parent glimepiride, the 90% CIs for the ratios of Cmax, AUC(0-t), and AUC(0-infinity) were 93.83% to 115.19%, 90.82% to 102.29%, and 92.22% to 103.78%, respectively. For the M1 metabolite, the 90% CIs were 91.71% to 110.79%, 91.33% to 101.76%, and 89.99% to 99.85%. Both met the predetermined criteria for bioequivalence. Four AEs (17.4%) were reported: hypertriglyceridemia (2 subjects [8.7%]; 1 each receiving the test and reference formulations); increase of red blood cells in urine (1 subject [4.3%] receiving the reference formulation); and hypoglycemia (1 subject [4.3%] receiving the test formulation). The incidence of hypoglycemia was the only AE considered probably related to study drug administration; all others were considered probably not related. All AEs were transient and considered by the investigators to be mild. In this small study in fasted healthy Chinese male volunteers, a single 2-mg dose of the test formulation met the regulatory criteria to assume bioequivalence to the reference formulation based on the rate and extent of absorption. Both formulations were well tolerated. SFDA Registration No.: 2009L01033.
19033449	Enantioselectivity in the pharmacokinetic interaction between fluvastatin and lercanidipine in healthy volunteers.	Hypertension and dyslipidemia are independent risk factors for cardiovascular mortality and are frequently present in the same patient. Fluvastatin (FV), used to reduce cholesterol levels, and lercanidipine (LER), used to control blood pressure, are marketed as racemic mixtures. Therapeutic activities are 30-fold higher for (+)-3R, 5S-FV and 100- to 200-fold higher for S-LER compared with their respective antipodes. The present study describes the enantioselective pharmacokinetic interaction between LER and FV in healthy volunteers. A crossover randomized study was conducted in 3 phases on 8 volunteers treated with a single oral racemic dose of LER (20 mg) or FV (40 mg) or LER plus FV. Serial blood samples were collected from 0 to 24 hours. Plasma concentrations of the LER and FV enantiomers were determined by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry, and pharmacokinetic parameters were evaluated using the WinNonlin software. The Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney tests (P < .05) were used to analyze enantiomer ratios and the pharmacokinetic drug interaction. Data are expressed as medians. In monotherapy, the kinetic disposition of both FV and LER was enantioselective. AUC values were significantly higher for (-)-3S,5R-FV than for (+)-3R,5S-FV (358.20 vs 279.68 ng.h/mL) and for S-LER compared with R-LER (13.90 vs 11.88 ng.h/mL). The pharmacokinetic parameters of FV were not enantioselective when combined with LER (AUC: (-)-3S,5R-FV: 325.21; (+)-3R,5S-FV: 316.44 ng.h/mL). There was a significant reduction in S-LER (8.06 vs 13.90 ng.h/mL) and R-LER (6.76 vs 11.88 ng.h/mL) AUC values when FV was coadministered. In conclusion, the interaction between FV-LER might be clinically relevant because AUC values of (+)-3R,5S-FV were increased when LER was coadministered, and AUC values of the 2 LER enantiomers were reduced when FV was coadministered.
8857570	On the metabolism and the toxicological analysis of methylenedioxyphenylalkylamine designer drugs by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Designer drugs of the methylenedioxyphenylalkylamine type are increasingly abused. Studies on their metabolism in humans are necessary to develop a reliable gas chromatography--mass spectrometry (GC-MS) screening procedure. Such a method must allow their detection in urine for drug testing in clinical and forensic toxicology. Studies on racemic methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA), methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDE), benzodioxazolylbutanamine (BDB), and N-methylbenzodioxazolylbutanamine (MBDB) are presented. The metabolites were identified by GC-MS after enzymatic hydrolysis, isolation (pH 4.5 and 8-9), and derivatization (acetylation followed by methylation). The drugs undergo two overlapping metabolic pathways: O-dealkylation of the methylenedioxy group to dihydroxy derivatives followed by methylation of one of the hydroxy groups and successive degradation of the side chain to N-dealkyl and deaminooxo metabolites. MDA, MDMA, and MDE are subsequently metabolized to glycine conjugates of the corresponding 3,4-disubstituted benzoic acids. The hydroxy metabolites are excreted in a conjugated form. Based on these results, a GC-MS procedure was developed for simultaneous screening and identification of these designer drugs and/or their metabolites in urine after acid hydrolysis, isolation at pH 8-9, and acetylation. With use of mass chromatography with the most characteristic fragment ions m/z 58, 72, 86, 150, 162, 164, 176, and 178, the presence of the designer drugs was indicated and the peak underlying spectra could be identified by computerized comparison with reference spectra recorded during the presented studies. The procedure was suitable to detect an abuse of or an intoxication with the studied designer drugs (detection limit 5-50 ng/ml).
14555340	Disposition of flurbiprofen in man: influence of stereochemistry and age.	1. The stereoselective metabolism and pharmacokinetics of the enantiomers of flurbiprofen were investigated following the oral administration of the racemic drug (100 mg) to four young and four elderly healthy volunteers (two males and two females per group). 2. The stereochemical composition of the drug and the 4'-hydroxy- metabolite in serum and the drug, 4'-hydroxy- and 3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxy- metabolites, both free and conjugated, in urine were determined by a direct chromatographic method of enantiomeric analysis. 3. Modest enantioselectivity in clearance (CL S/R: young, 0.86; elderly, 0.88) was largely responsible for the apparent elimination half-life of (S)-flurbiprofen being significantly greater (p<0.01) than that of the R-enantiomer in both age groups (young, S: 5.2 +/- 0.7 versus R: 4.5 +/- 0.6 h; elderly, S: 9.6 +/- 1.2 versus R: 7.1 +/- 1.0 h). The serum concentrations of 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen were five- to 20-fold lower than those of the corresponding drug enantiomers, stereoselective disposition being evident in the significantly greater (p<0.05) apparent half-lives of the S- compared with the R-enantiomer in both groups (young, S: 10.6 +/- 2.4 versus R: 6.7 +/- 1.1 h; elderly, S: 13.7 +/- 1.7 versus R: 10.2 +/- 1.2 h). 4. Some 60 and 72% of the dose was excreted in 24-h urine in elderly and young volunteers, respectively, a significantly greater (p<0.05) proportion of which was of the R-configuration in both age groups (S/R: young, 0.87; elderly, 0.81). The major urinary excretion products were flurbiprofen and 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen, and their acyl-conjugates in both groups. 5. Age-associated differences in the pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen occurred in a non-stereoselective manner and were primarily as a consequence of a significant approximately 40% decrease (p<0.01) in clearance of both enantiomers in the elderly due to reduced metabolic activity. Consequently, the elderly had greater exposure to both enantiomers, as reflected by the AUCs(0-inf) being significantly higher (p<0.05), by 60%, in this age group compared with the young. 6. The findings suggest that age-related alterations in the disposition of flurbiprofen could have significant implications for the use of the drug in the elderly.
19000553	Pharmacokinetic profile of fesoterodine.	Fesoterodine is a new antimuscarinic agent for the treatment of overactive bladder. Following oral administration, fesoterodine is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed by nonspecific esterases to its active moiety: 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT). The cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes are not involved in the formation of 5-HMT; however, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 provide 2 alternative pathways for further metabolism and inactivation of 5-HMT. Single oral doses of 4 mg, 8 mg or 12 mg of fesoterodine sustained-release tablets in the fasted state and 8 mg in a fed state. This single-center, open-label, randomized, crossover study investigated the effects of fesoterodine in healthy volunteers comprised of CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (EMs; n = 16) and CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs; n = 8) after either an overnight fast or a high-fat and high-calorie breakfast. Adverse events, vital signs, ECG recordings and laboratory tests were monitored for safety assessment. For the principal active moiety, 5-HMT, the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to time of last measurable concentration (AUC0-t) and amount excreted in urine (Ae) increased proportionally with dose in both EM and PM subjects. The mean Cmax and AUC0-t in PMs were approximately twice those observed in EMs. CYP2D6 status had no effect on time to reach Cmax (5 h), renal clearance (approximately 250 ml/min), or half-life (approximately 8 h). Fesoterodine was well tolerated at all doses. While the incidence of dry mouth increased from 8 - 12 mg, all occurrences were mild-to-moderate. Fesoterodine demonstrated a pharmacokinetic (PK) profile that was favorable for once-daily dosing. The systemic exposure to 5-HMT increased proportionally with dose and was about 2-fold higher in PMs compared with EMs. There was no clinically relevant effect of food on the PK of fesoterodine. Fesoterodine was well tolerated at all dose levels studied.
16369821	Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of irinotecan and its metabolites from plasma and saliva data in patients with metastatic digestive cancer receiving Folfiri regimen.	Irinotecan is extensively metabolized into at least four compounds and previous pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic studies have given varying results. We hypothesized that saliva, a noninvasive, safe and painless biological sampling process, could be a good predictor of the behavior of irinotecan and its metabolites. Thirty-five patients with metastatic digestive cancer were treated with a Folfiri regimen every 2 weeks. The irinotecan-administered dose was 180 mg/m(2); 17 patients participated in a dose-escalating study. Irinotecan and its metabolites (SN-38, SN-38G, APC, NPC) were quantified in plasma and saliva by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The mean irinotecan systemic clearance and steady-state volume of distribution values were 14.3 l/h/m(2) and 211 l/m(2), respectively. The intrapatient variability (22-28%) was far lower than the interindividual variability (33-88%). Age and weight were the two physiological parameters that influenced drug disposition. For irinotecan, SN-38, APC and NPC, similar pharmacokinetic profiles were observed from plasma and saliva data. The saliva/plasma AUC ratios averaged 1 for irinotecan, 0.3 for SN-38, 0.17 for APC and 0.27 for NPC. Neutropenia, diarrhea and nausea were the main toxicities encountered. From both plasma and saliva data, the percentage decrease in neutrophil count appeared to be related to irinotecan and SN-38 AUCs. All these findings provide a rationale for an individual adaptation of irinotecan dosing. In case of difficult venous access, the titration of irinotecan and of its active metabolite SN-38 in saliva may prove relevant.
17952001	Pharmacodynamic study of the Saltz regimen for metastatic colorectal cancer in a hemodialyzed patient.	Combination therapy with irinotecan (CPT-11), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin is widely used for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. However, little is known about the safety of chemotherapy of malignancies in hemodialysis (HD) patients. We encountered a patient with colorectal carcinoma on HD. We decided to administer combination chemotherapy while monitoring the pharmacodynamics of the patient. A 74-year-old male received regular HD 3 times a week because of type 1 diabetes mellitus. He was diagnosed with stage IV colorectal cancer in November 2004. After sigmoidectomy, the patient received chemotherapy: a weekly schedule of CPT-11 (50 mg/m(2)) was administered followed by l-leucovorin (10 mg/m(2)) and 5-FU (400 mg/m(2)) just after HD. During the course, the plasma concentrations of both SN-38, an active metabolite of CPT-11, and 5-FU were not increased compared with those of patients with normal renal function. Our patient presented with grade III hematological toxicity that was easily recovered by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. These data suggest that the dose-reduced Saltz regimen can be feasible for colorectal cancer patients receiving dialysis as postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy.
21300142	Low occupational exposure to benzene in a petrochemical plant: modulating effect of genetic polymorphisms and smoking habit on the urinary t,t-MA/SPMA ratio.	The identification of reliable biomarkers is critical for the assessment of occupational exposure of benzene: S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA) and trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) are the most currently used. t,t-MA is an open-ring metabolite, but it is also a metabolite of the food preservative sorbic acid, while SPMA is formed by conjugation with glutathione, and several studies suggested that the genetic polymorphism of glutathione S-transferases modulates its production. This study compared the ability of these metabolites to assess the benzene exposure in a big group of petrochemical workers. Furthermore, investigated how genetic polymorphism of glutathione S-transferase theta 1 (GSTT1), glutathione S-transferase mu 1 (GSTM1), glutathione S-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1) and smoking habits, may influence their excretion. Results showed that occupational exposure to benzene was negligible compared to that from smoking and confirmed the modulating effect of the genetic polymorphism of GSTT1 on the urinary excretion of SPMA, but not of t, t-MA, even at very low levels of benzene exposure. The same effect was found for GSTM1, but only for smokers. The t,t-MA/SPMA ratio was not a constant value and resulted to be higher than the corresponding Biological Exposure Index (BEI) ratio, which is currently equal to 20. Higher values of metabolite have been associated with the GSTT1 or GSTM1 null genotype and these are responsible for increase health risk. We suggest that this ratio could be used as a marker of individual susceptibility for subjects with benzene exposure.
9115052	Negligible systemic absorption of topical isotretinoin cream: implications for teratogenicity.	The objective of the study was to assess the extent of systemic exposure of retinoic acid metabolites after excessive application of 0.1% isotretinoin cream in patients with photodamaged skin. This was a single-center, open-label, noncomparative, multiple-dose study of isotretinoin cream. Eighteen female patients with photodamaged skin received a 10 g topical application of isotretinoin cream once daily to a surface area of approximately 2,300 cm2 for 42 days. The patients were not allowed to have high vitamin A-containing foods, vitamin A supplements, or concomitant medications during the entire study period. Plasma levels of four retinoic acids (isotretinoin, tretinoin, 4-oxo-isotretinoin, and 4-oxo-tretinoin) were evaluated after 42 days of isotretinoin application and compared with baseline (pretreatment) levels. The mean area under the curve (AUC) in plasma increased by 48% (+/-SE 9.2) and 77% (+/-13) from the 24-hour pretreatment baseline level for isotretinoin and 4-oxo-isotretinoin, respectively, after treatment with excessive amounts of isotretinoin cream, suggesting systemic absorption of isotretinoin cream. This increase in systemic exposure of retinoic acids was less than that reported earlier after the U.S. recommended daily allowance of 5,000 i.u. of vitamin A supplementation (isotretinoin 141 +/- 19% and 4-oxo-isotretinoin 171 +/- 27%). The minimal systemic availability of isotretinoin cream compared with the U.S. recommended daily allowance for vitamin A supplements provides reasonable evidence for lack of its potential teratogenic risk.
16839472	Analysis of 13 fentanils, including sufentanil and carfentanil, in human urine by liquid chromatography-atmospheric-pressure ionization-tandem mass spectrometry.	A sensitive, semiautomated method for the analysis of several fentanils and fentanil metabolites in human urine is described. This method uses solid-phase extraction of urine samples followed by liquid chromatography-atmospheric pressure ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. Isotopically labeled internal standards were included for 6 of the 13 analytes in this study. Estimated detection limits ranged from 3 to 27 pg/mL, and good accuracy and long-term precision were observed in most cases. This method should be useful for the rapid and sensitive screening of human urine samples for a number of fentanils and their metabolites as indicators of exposure.
11956503	Acute hypoxia and cytochrome P450-mediated hepatic drug metabolism in humans.	Our objective was to investigate the effect of acute hypoxia on the activity of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Twelve healthy subjects who lived at sea level were exposed to altitude-induced hypoxia for 7 days at 4559 m above sea level. Hepatic CYP enzyme activity was measured before departure, at 24 and 96 hours after arrival to high-altitude location, and at 1 month after return to sea level. CYP enzyme activities were measured by means of the metabolic ratios of sparteine (CYP2D6), endogenous cortisol metabolism (CYP3A4), and caffeine (CYP1A2), as well as by the S/R ratio of mephenytoin (CYP2C19) and antipyrine clearance. The metabolic ratio of sparteine increased after 24 hours at high altitude (median difference, 0.15; 95% confidence interval, 0.05 to 0.28) and remained increased after 96 hours. The ratio decreased after return to sea level (median difference, -0.15; 95% confidence interval, -0.29 to -0.03; P =.016, Friedman test). The metabolic ratio of cortisol decreased after 24 hours (median difference, -2.0; 95% confidence interval, -3.5 to -0.5) but returned to sea level values after 96 hours at high altitude (median difference, 1.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.0 to 4.2; P =.047, Friedman test). These changes indicate a small decrease in the activity of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. There were no significant changes regarding the metabolic ratio of caffeine, the S/R ratio of mephenytoin, or antipyrine clearance. The small changes observed suggest that acute hypoxia has no clinically significant effects on CYP enzymes in humans.
3739365	Oxidation of tricyclic antidepressant drugs, debrisoquine and 7-ethoxyresorufin, by human liver preparations.	Data obtained from human studies in vivo show that the dispositions of the tricyclic antidepressant drugs desmethylimipramine (DMI) and nortriptyline are related to the debrisoquine hydroxylation phenotype. To obtain insight into the enzymic mechanisms behind this, the metabolism of debrisoquine and antidepressant drugs by human liver preparations have been studied. The 2-hydroxylation of DMI in vitro correlates with the 4-hydroxylation of debrisoquine among various livers (rs = 0.90). Debrisoquine inhibits DMI hydroxylation competitively, and DMI inhibits debrisoquine hydroxylation, suggesting that DMI hydroxylation is catalysed by the debrisoquine hydroxylase in human liver. By monitoring the hydroxylation of DMI in various fractions during separation and purification of cytochrome P-450 from human liver microsomes we have purified a cytochrome P-450 which efficiently hydroxylates this drug. The apparently electrophoretically homogeneous enzyme had a molecular weight of 51,500 and hydroxylated DMI and debrisoquine at rates of up to 0.95 and 0.45 nmol/min . nmol P-450, respectively. This is probably the major debrisoquine hydroxylating cytochrome P-450 in man. Nortriptyline 10-hydroxylation correlates strongly (r = 0.96) with debrisoquine hydroxylation in human liver microsomes. Nortriptyline inhibits DMI-hydroxylation competitively, and the drug also inhibits the 4-hydroxylation of debrisoquine. Thus it is probable that nortriptyline is hydroxylated by debrisoquine hydroxylase. Imipramine N-demethylation did not correlate significantly (P greater than 0.1) with debrisoquine hydroxylation among microsomes from nine livers. However, if a liver from a subject, which was a poor metabolizer of debrisoquine in vivo, was included, a correlation was obtained (r = 0.79, P less than 0.01, N = 10). Imipramine demethylation also correlated with DMI-hydroxylation only if the 'poor metabolizer' liver was included (r = 0.75, P less than 0.05, N = 10). Debrisoquine inhibited imipramine demethylation competitively. The data indicate that imipramine can interact with debrisoquine- and DMI-hydroxylase, but it is uncertain if this enzyme plays an important quantitative role in its demethylation. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation correlated with DMI hydroxylation (r = 0.80) in human liver preparations, and DMI inhibited the former reaction in what is probably a mixed competitive-non-competitive inhibition. Liver preparations from a subject who was a poor oxidizer of debrisoquine both in vivo and in vitro had unusually low capacity to metabolize ethoxyresorufin. Thus ethoxyresorufin, at least partly, seems to interact with an enzyme that can metabolize DMI in human liver.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
15039933	Simultaneous quantification of cyclophosphamide, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, N,N',N"-triethylenethiophosphoramide (thiotepa) and N,N',N"-triethylenephosphoramide (tepa) in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	The alkylating agents cyclophosphamide (CP) and N, N', N"-triethylenethiophosphoramide (thiotepa) are often co-administered in high-dose chemotherapy regimens. Since these regimens can be complicated by the occurrence of severe and sometimes life-threatening toxicities, pharmacokinetically guided administration of these compounds, to reduce variability in exposure, may lead to improved tolerability. For rapid dose adaptations during a chemotherapy course, we have developed and validated an assay, using liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS), for the routine quantification of CP, thiotepa and their respective active metabolites 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4OHCP) and N, N', N"-triethylenephosphoramide (tepa) in plasma. Because of the instability of 4OHCP in plasma, the compound is derivatized with semicarbazide (SCZ) immediately after sample collection and quantified as 4OHCP-SCZ. Sample pretreatment consisted of protein precipitation with a mixture of methanol and acetronitrile using 100 microl of plasma. Chromatographic separation was performed on an Zorbax Extend C18 column (150 x 2.1 mm i.d., particle size 5 microm), with a quick gradient using 1 mM ammonia solution and acetonitrile, at a flow-rate of 0.4 ml min(-1). The analytical run time was 10 min. The triple quadrupole mass spectrometer was operating in the positive ion mode and multiple reaction monitoring was used for drug quantification. The method was validated over the concentration ranges 200-40,000 ng ml(-1) for CP, 50-5000 ng ml(-1) for 4OHCP-SCZ and 5-2500 ng ml(-1) for thiotepa and tepa, using 100 microl of human plasma. These dynamic concentration ranges proved to be relevant in daily practice. Hexamethylphosphoramide was used as an internal standard. The coefficients of variation were <12% for both intra-day and inter-day precisions for each compound. Mean accuracies were also between the designated limits (+/- 15%). This robust and rapid LC/MS/MS assay is now successfully applied for routine therapeutic drug monitoring of CP, thiotepa and their metabolites in our hospital.
76483	Simultaneous determination of hydromorphone, hydrocodone and their 6alpha- and 6beta-hydroxy metabolites in urine using selected ion recording with methane chemical ionization.	A selected ion recording using chemical ionization (methane) is described for the simultaneous measurement of hydrocodone, hydromorphone and their respective 6alpha- and 6beta-hydroxymetabolites in human urine. The samples were acid-hydrolyzed, extracted and derivatized by silylation. Only partial resolution of the components on 3% OV-17 was achieved but was sufficient for their determination. The [M+1]+ ions of the drugs and metabolites as well as the [M+29]+ ion of the internal standard were recorded. The assay was sensitive down to c. 0.01 microgram ml-1. The relative standard deviation of standards processed along with the samples ranged from 4.5-8.2%. Hydrocodone was found to be metabolized in man primarily by O-demethylation and 6-keto reduction. Hydromorphone was excreted mainly in the unchanged form (after acid-hydrolysis) with only minor amounts of the 6-hydroxymetabolites being detected. A lack of stereoselectivity in the metabolic reduction ofhydrocodone was observed.
12352937	Direct quantification of ethyl glucuronide in clinical urine samples by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Ethyl glucuronide is a minor metabolite of ethanol, and its presence in urine can be used as a laboratory test to detect recent alcohol intake, even for some time after the ethanol is no longer measurable. A simple analytical procedure was developed based on direct injection of urine diluted with a deuterated internal standard into an electrospray liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric (LC-MS) system. A novel LC system using a porous graphite column (Hypercarb) enabled an isocratic elution with retention times of 5-6 minutes. The intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were 2-12%, and the measuring range was 0.1-1,500 mg/L (0.45-6,750 micromol/L). Ethyl glucuronide was found to be stable in urine for more than 4 days at room temperature, and no artifactual formation was observed on storage of urine samples fortified with 1% ethanol. Ethyl glucuronide was not detected in urine samples collected after abstinence from alcohol. Intake of a very low amount (7 g) of ethanol produced ethyl glucuronide values up to 8.4 mg/L after 4 hours and was still detectable at 6 hours. When the method was applied for routine screening of 252 clinical urine samples (range, 0-1,240 mg/L), it fulfilled the need for a simple and reliable assay to be used in the evaluation of urinary ethyl glucuronide as a routine test of recent alcohol intake.
23036741	The contribution of human small intestine to chlorpyrifos biotransformation.	Despite the oral intake is the major route of exposure to chlorpyrifos for the general population, few data are available on human intestine biotransformation. In this study the contribution of chlorpyrifos (CPF) metabolism in human small intestine was investigated in microsomes from duodenum (HDM) and ileum/jejunum (HS2M) from 11 individual donors. Samples were characterized for testosterone hydroxylated metabolite formation and CYP content quantification by means of Western blotting. The two methods gave consistent results, evidencing the presence of CY3A4 and its-related activity in 10/11 samples, among which one showed also the presence of CYP2C9. Analogously, although with high interindividual variability (about 10 fold), CPF bioactivation to chlorpyrifos-oxon (CPFO) was observed in 10/11 HDM: intrinsic clearance highest value was 0.75 pmolCPFO/(mgproteinminM). Detoxication to 3,5,6-trichloropyrin-2-ol formation was negligible. The comparison between HDM and HS2M indicates that most CPF bioactivation was confined in the duodenum, declining toward the distal ileum. Results suggest that following oral exposure, the small intestine CPF bioactivation, although much lower when compared to the total hepatic metabolism, could play a role in the pre-systemic CPF clearance, with CPFO transported into the lumen by the efflux P-glycoprotein and further metabolized by esterases.
16280454	Structural elucidation of human oxidative metabolites of muraglitazar: use of microbial bioreactors in the biosynthesis of metabolite standards.	Muraglitazar (Pargluva), a dual alpha/gamma peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activator, is currently in clinical development for treatment of type 2 diabetes. This study describes the structural elucidation of the human oxidative metabolites of muraglitazar through the use of a combination of microbial bioreactors, NMR and accurate mass analyses, and organic synthesis. Plasma, urine, and feces were collected from six healthy subjects following oral administration of 14C-labeled muraglitazar (10 mg, 100 microCi) and pooled samples were analyzed. Approximately 96% of the recovered radioactive dose was found in the feces and 3.5% in the urine. The parent compound represented >85% of the radioactivity in plasma. The fecal radioactivity was distributed among 16 metabolites (M1-M12, M14-M16, and M8a) and the parent drug, of which hydroxylation and O-demethylation metabolites (M5, M10, M11, M14, and M15) represented the prominent human metabolites. The urinary radioactivity was distributed into several peaks including muraglitazar glucuronide (M13) and the parent drug. Low concentrations of metabolites in human samples prevented direct identification of metabolites beyond liquid chromatographic (LC)-mass spectrometric analysis. Microbial strains Cunninghamella elegans and Saccharopolyspora hirsuta produced muraglitazar metabolites that had the same high performance liquid chromatography retention times and the same tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) properties as the corresponding human metabolites. The microbial metabolites M9, M10, M11, M14, M15, and M16 were isolated and analyzed by NMR. Based on these LC-MS/MS and NMR analyses, and organic synthesis, the structures of 16 human oxidative metabolites were identified. The oxidative metabolism of muraglitazar was characterized by hydroxylation, O-demethylation, oxazolering opening, and O-demethylation/hydroxylation, as well as O-dealkylation and carboxylic acid formation. This study demonstrated the utility of microbial bioreactors for the identification of metabolites.
17358096	Relative bioavailability, metabolism and tolerability of rectally administered oxcarbazepine suspension.	Maintenance of effective drug concentrations is essential for adequate treatment of epilepsy. Some antiepileptic drugs can be successfully administered rectally when the oral route of administration is temporarily unavailable. Oxcarbazepine is a newer antiepileptic drug that is rapidly converted to a monohydroxy derivative, the active compound. This study aimed to characterise the bioavailability, metabolism and tolerability of rectally administered oxcarbazepine suspension using a randomised, crossover design in ten healthy volunteers. Two subjects received 300 mg doses of oxcarbazepine suspension via rectal and oral routes and eight received 450 mg doses. A washout period of at least 2 weeks elapsed between doses. The rectal dose was diluted 1:1 with water. Blood samples and urine were collected for 72 hours post-dose. Adverse effects were assessed at each blood collection time-point using a self-administered questionnaire. Plasma was assayed for oxcarbazepine and monohydroxy derivative; urine was assayed for monohydroxy derivative and monohydroxy derivative-glucuronide. Maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and time to reach C(max) (t(max)) were obtained directly from the plasma concentration-time curves. The areas under the concentration-time curve (AUCs) were determined via non-compartmental analysis. Relative bioavailability was calculated and the C(max) and AUCs were compared using Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Mean relative bioavailability calculated from plasma AUCs was 8.3% (SD 5.5%) for the monohydroxy derivative and 10.8% (SD 7.3%) for oxcarbazepine. Oxcarbazepine and monohydroxy derivative C(max) and AUC values were significantly lower following rectal administration (p < 0.01). The total amount of monohydroxy derivative excreted in the urine following rectal administration was 10 +/- 5% of the amount excreted following oral administration. Oral absorption was consistent with previous studies. The most common adverse effects were headache and fatigue with no discernible differences between routes. Monohydroxy derivative bioavailability following rectal administration of oxcarbazepine suspension is significantly lower than following oral administration, most likely because of poor oxcarbazepine water solubility. It is unlikely that adequate monohydroxy derivative concentrations can be achieved with rectal administration of diluted oxcarbazepine suspension.
18981587	Association of ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C, number 2 (ABCC2) genotype with pharmacokinetics of irinotecan in Japanese patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with irinotecan plus infusional 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FOLFIRI).	ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C, number 2 (ABCC2) is involved in the biliary excretion of irinotecan and its metabolites, SN-38 and SN-38 glucuronide. Effects of the ABCC2 genotype on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of irinotecan and the metabolites were examined in Japanese patients with metastatic colorectal cancer receiving irinotecan plus infusional 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FOLFIRI). ABCC2 genotypes (-1549G>A, -1023G>A, -1019A>G, -24C>T, 1249G>A and 3972C>T) and haplotypes were analyzed for 67 patients with cancer. PK was also examined in a subset of 31 patients receiving FOLFIRI. Relationship between the ABCC2 genotypes or diplotypes and area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) of irinotecan and the metabolites normalized by irinotecan dose was analyzed. The lower AUC of irinotecan was seen in patients with A/A or G/A genotypes at 1249 of the ABCC2 gene than others (p=0.011, Mann-Whitney U teat). AUC of SN-38 in patients with A/A or G/A genotypes at -1023 was significantly lower than that in others (p=0.018). The haplotype I included -1023A (GAACGC) was the most frequent one with the allele frequency of 0.366. The AUC of SN-38 observed in patients with diplotypes harboring at least one haplotype I was lower than that observed in others (p=0.023). The haplotype IV consisted of 1249 (GGACAC) and was the fourth most frequent one with the allele frequency of 0.127. Patients with diplotypes carrying at least one haplotype IV showed lower AUC of irinotecan than others (p=0.011). Thus, ABCC2 genotype is one of the predictors of the variability of irinotecan PK in Japanese patients with metastatic colorectal cancer receiving FOLFIRI.
17200836	Inhibition of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 catalyzed metabolism of alprazolam and quinine by ketoconazole as racemate and four different enantiomers.	The antifungal drug ketoconazole (KTZ) is known as an inhibitor of, especially, the CYP3A subfamily, which catalyzes the metabolism of a large variety of drugs. Interactions between KTZ and CYP3A substrates have been reported both in vivo and in vitro. Most of them, however, involved the KTZ racemate. KTZ racemate and the separate enantiomers, 2R,4R; 2R,4S; 2S,4S, and 2S,4R, were evaluated for their selectivity in inhibiting alprazolam and quinine metabolism. The inhibition of alprazolam and quinine metabolism was studied in an in vitro system of human liver microsomes (HLM), recombinant of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. The concentrations of formed 3-hydroxyquinine and 4- and alpha-hydroxyalprazolam were measured by HPLC and LC-MS, respectively. Quinine 3-hydroxylation was catalyzed to a similar extent by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. The formation rate of 4-hydroxyalprazolam was higher than that of alpha-hydroxyalprazolam for each HLM, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. KTZ racemate and enantiomers showed differential inhibitory effects of quinine and alprazolam metabolism. Quinine metabolism catalyzed by HLM, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 was potently inhibited by the trans-enantiomer KTZ 2S,4S, with IC(50) value of 0.16 microM for HLM, 0.04 microM for CYP3A4 and 0.11 microM for CYP3A5. The same enantiomer showed the lowest IC(50) values of 0.11 microM for HLM and 0.04 microM for CYP3A5 with respect to alprazoalm 4-hydroxylation and also the same pattern for alprazolamalpha-hydroxylation, 0.13 microM for HLM and 0.05 microM for CYP3A5. Alprazolam metabolism (both alpha- and 4- hydroxylations) catalyzed by CYP3A4 was inhibited potently by the cis-enantiomer KTZ 2S,4R, with IC(50) values of 0.03 microM. Alprazolam and quinine metabolism is catalyzed by both CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. The present study showed that different KTZ enantiomers inhibit CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 to different degrees, indicating that structural differences among the enantiomers would be related to their inhibitory potency on these two enzymes.
20876787	Plasma stability-dependent circulation of acyl glucuronide metabolites in humans: how circulating metabolite profiles of muraglitazar and peliglitazar can lead to misleading risk assessment.	Muraglitazar and peliglitazar, two structural analogs differing by a methyl group, are dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-/ activators. Both compounds were extensively metabolized in humans through acyl glucuronidation to form 1-O--acyl glucuronide (AG) metabolites as the major drug-related components in bile, representing at least 15 to 16% of the dose after oral administration. Peliglitazar AG was the major circulating metabolite, whereas muraglitazar AG was a very minor circulating metabolite in humans. Peliglitazar AG circulated at lower concentrations in animal species than in humans. Both compounds had a similar glucuronidation rate in UDP-glucuronic acid-fortified human liver microsomal incubations and a similar metabolism rate in human hepatocytes. Muraglitazar AG and peliglitazar AG were chemically synthesized and found to be similarly oxidized through hydroxylation and O-demethylation in NADPH-fortified human liver microsomal incubations. Peliglitazar AG had a greater stability than muraglitazar AG in incubations in buffer, rat, or human plasma (pH 7.4). Incubations of muraglitazar AG or peliglitazar AG in plasma produced more aglycon than acyl migration products compared with incubations in the buffer. These data suggested that the difference in plasma stability, not differences in intrinsic formation, direct excretion, or further oxidation of muraglitazar AG or peliglitazar AG, contributed to the observed difference in the circulation of these AG metabolites in humans. The study demonstrated the difficulty in doing risk assessment based on metabolite exposure in plasma because the more reactive muraglitazar AG would not have triggered a threshold of concern based on the recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidance on Metabolites in Safety Testing, whereas the more stable peliglitazar AG would have.
20861156	Nanosilver particle effects on drug metabolism in vitro.	Nanosilver particles are present in consumer and health care products. Their effects on human microsomal cytochrome P450 (P450) activities and induction in luciferase reporter-engineered Caco-2 (MDR1.C) and HepG2 (DPX2 and 1A2DRE) cells have been investigated. The LD(50) values were  4 g silver/ml for HepG2 and 5 g/ml for Caco-2 cells. At silver concentrations that showed no decreased cell viability (<1 g silver/ml), the pregnane X receptor (PXR)-driven 4.5-fold induction response of MDR1.C cells to 50 M omeprazole was unaffected. In DPX2 cells, the PXR-driven 5.5- and 6.5-fold induction responses to omeprazole and 10 M rifampicin were attenuated to 4- and 3.5-fold, respectively. Nanosilver particles alone showed no induction. In 1A2DRE cells, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor-driven 5.5-fold induction response to omeprazole was attenuated to 4-fold. In 1A2DRE cells, nanosilver alone elicited slight induction at 1 g/ml. The inhibition of human P450-selective activities by nanosilver particles in vitro was proportional to the silver/microsomal protein ratio. At a fixed (0.5 mg/ml) protein concentration, P450-selective activities differed in sensitivity (IC(50) value). Coumarin 7-hydroxylation and 7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin O-deethylation exhibited the highest IC(50) values (33.5 and 31.9 M, respectively) and S-mephenytoin 4-hydroxylation exhibited the lowest (6.4 M). Other IC(50) values were, in ascending order, 8.0 to 9.3 M (testosterone 6-hydroxylation, 7-benzyloxyquinoline debenzylation, and diclofenac 4-hydroxylation), 16.0 M (chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation), 21.2 M [7-methoxy-4-(aminomethyl)-coumarin O-demethylation], and 24.4 M (7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylation). An investigation of 70 M nanosilver particles showed that microsomal NADPH cytochrome c reductase activities were inhibited <12%. From our in vitro observations, we extrapolated that nanosilver particles reaching the liver may be a potential source of drug-drug interactions.
19462939	Enantioselectivity in the methylation of the catecholic phase I metabolites of methylenedioxy designer drugs and their capability to inhibit catechol-O-methyltransferase-catalyzed dopamine 3-methylation.	The designer drugs R,S-3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy), R,S-3,4-methylenedioxy-ethylamphetamine (MDEA, Eve), and R,S-N-methyl-benzodioxolyl-butanamine (MBDB, Eden) are chiral compounds, and their in vitro and in vivo metabolism is enantioselective with a preference for the S-enantiomer caused in part by P450-mediated demethylenation. As the elimination of the catecholamine metabolites could also be enantioselective, the aim of the present study was to investigate the O-methylation to the corresponding methoxy derivatives catalyzed by the soluble or membrane-bound form of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). As all three compounds showed substrate inhibition effects during the incubation, their inhibition potential was quantified using the methylation of dopamine as a marker reaction. For investigation of the catechol-O-methylation catalyzed by the soluble form of the COMT (sCOMT), incubations with human liver cytosol (HLC) were performed. Human liver microsomes (HLM) were used for investigation of the membrane-bound form. For inhibition studies, 3-hydroxytyramine (dopamine) was incubated in HLC. The respective catechols were added at various concentrations to check whether they influence the methylation of 3-hydroxytyramine. Our data showed that the S-enantiomers of all studied catecholamines were preferably O-methylated by both types of COMT. Comparing the resulting kinetics of the HLC and HLM assays, the affinity for all substrates was 10-fold higher for the membrane-bound COMT, whereas the turnover rate was 10-fold higher for the soluble COMT. Uncompetitive inhibition of dopamine methylation could be observed for all tested catechols. In conclusion, elimination of the catecholamine metabolites of MDMA, MDEA, and MBDB was shown to be enantioselective and might therefore contribute to the different pharmacokinetic properties observed for both enantiomers. Furthermore, the catecholic metabolites were identified to be uncompetitive inhibitors of the sCOMT localized in HLC.
17035599	An evaluation of the cytochrome p450 inhibition potential of lisdexamfetamine in human liver microsomes.	The human cytochrome P450 (P450) system is implicated in many drug interactions. Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (NRP104), the proposed generic name for a new agent under investigation for treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, was recently analyzed for inhibitory drug-drug interactions with seven major P450 isoforms using pooled human liver microsomes. Probe substrates were used near the K(m) concentration values reported in the literature for CYP1A2 (phenacetin), CYP2A6 (coumarin), CYP2B6 (bupropion), CYP2C9 (tolbutamide), CYP2C19 ([S]-mephenytoin), CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan), and CYP3A4 (midazolam and testosterone), and lisdexamfetamine was evaluated at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 100 muM for its ability to inhibit the activity of these seven P450 isoforms. NADPH was added to one set of samples to initiate metabolic reactions, which were then terminated by adding organic solvent, vortexing the samples, and placing them on ice. The relevant substrates were then introduced to both sets of samples so that the percentage of remaining activity could be measured and compared. In addition, these samples were compared with other samples with the same concentrations of lisdexamfetamine but without preincubation. None of the seven P450 isoforms showed any concentration-dependent inhibition. Comparison of results from microsomes preincubated with and without NADPH showed no mechanism-based inhibition. Neither concentration-dependent nor mechanism-based inhibition caused by time-dependent inactivation of human P450 isoforms was shown for lisdexamfetamine during in vitro testing. The evidence suggests that lisdexamfetamine has a low potential for drug-drug interactions or initiation of drug-drug interactions.
23041474	Urinary ochratoxin A and ochratoxin alpha in pregnant women.	This study determined exposure of pregnant women to ochratoxin A (OTA). Forty samples of first-void urine samples from Croatian women in the third trimester of pregnancy were analyzed for OTA and its major metabolite ochratoxin alpha (OT). The subjects filled a short food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Analysis was performed by HPLC-FLD following liquid-liquid extraction. All samples were subjected in parallel to enzymatic treatment (-glucuronidase/aryl sulfatase) to release OTA and OT from the conjugates. The median urinary levels of OTA and OT before treatment were 0.02 (range: nd-1.07) ng/mL and 0.16 (nd-1.86) ng/mL; the concentrations after enzyme hydrolysis were 0.02 (nd-1.11) ng/mL and 1.18 (0.11-7.57) ng/mL. While OT levels increased significantly following enzymatic treatment, evidence for OTA conjugation was weak. The ratio of urinary OT medians after and before hydrolysis was 1.5 times higher than previously reported for nonpregnant female subjects, possibly indicating upregulated metabolism and/or elimination of the mycotoxin and metabolites in pregnancy. The mean daily dietary OTA intake calculated from FFQs (1.080.57 ng/kg body weight) was well below the provisional tolerable daily intake and the greatest contributors to intake were cereal products, fruit juices, chocolate and coffee.
7795788	Simultaneous quantitation of methotrexate and its two main metabolites in biological fluids by a novel solid-phase extraction procedure using high-performance liquid chromatography.	We have developed an assay for the simultaneous determination of methotrexate (MTX) and its main metabolites, 7-hydroxymethotrexate (7-OHMTX) and 2,4-diamino-N10-methylpteroic acid (DAMPA) in plasma, urine and saliva meeting the requirement of rapidity for routine use in high-dose MTX therapy and the requirement of sensitivity for its potential use in therapeutic drug monitoring in low-dose MTX therapy. Sample preparation is based on solid-phase extraction using C8 Isolute cartridges. Chromatographic separation was achieved with a reversed-phase column (C18), and quantitation by subsequent exposure to UV light of 254 nm, which converted MTX and its two metabolites by photolytic oxidation to fluorescent products. The recoveries of MTX, 7-OHMTX and DAMPA from plasma at 100 nmol/l were 85.8, 91.1 and 102.3%, respectively. The limits of detection for MTX, 7-OHMTX and DAMPA in plasma and saliva were 0.1 nmol/l. In urine the limit of detection was 10 nmol/l for all compounds. The limits of quantitation in plasma and saliva were 0.5 nmol/l for all compounds.
19896309	A rapid method for the extraction, enantiomeric separation and quantification of amphetamines in hair.	This paper presents a rapid and sensitive method for the determination and chiral separation of amphetamines and related designer drugs in hair samples. The substances are extracted from hair matrix by a 30 min treatment with a saturated carbonate buffer at pH 10 under ultrasonication. A commercial chiral derivatizing agent, trifluoroacetyl-prolyl chloride, is then added to the solution that is directly extracted with hexane and subsequently analyzed by GC/MS in SIM mode. R and S isomers of amphetamine, methamphetamine, MDA, MDMA and MDEA can be separated and detected with a limit of detection of 0.1 ng/mg for amphetamine, methamphetamine and MDA, and of 0.2 ng/mg for MDMA and MDEA. The method was then applied to 12 samples from suspected amphetamines abusers, showing the presence of both isomers of amphetamine and MDMA in one sample (27 and 1.5 ng/mg, respectively) and of MDMA in further eight samples, in concentrations ranging from traces to 2.7 ng/mg. No differences were observed in the disposition of different isomers in hair.
19051226	In vitro metabolism of beta-lapachone (ARQ 501) in mammalian hepatocytes and cultured human cells.	ARQ 501 (3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphthol[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione, beta-lapachone) is an anticancer agent, currently in multiple phase II clinical trials as monotherapy and in combination with other cytotoxic drugs. This study focuses on in vitro metabolism in cryopreserved hepatocytes from mice, rats, dogs and humans using [(14)C]-labeled ARQ 501. Metabolite profiles were characterized using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry combined with an accurate radioactivity counter. Ion trap mass spectrometry was employed for further structural elucidation. A total of twelve metabolites were detected in the mammalian hepatocytes studied; all of which but one were generated from phase II conjugation reactions. Ten of the observed metabolites were produced by conjugations occurring at the reduced ortho-quinone carbonyl groups of ARQ 501. The metabolite profiles revealed that glucuronidation was the major biotransformation pathway in mouse and human hepatocytes. Monosulfation was the major pathway in dog, while, in rat, it appears glucuronidation and sulfation pathways contributed equally. Three major metabolites were found in rats: monoglucuronide M1, monosulfate M6, and glucuronide-sulfate M9. Two types of diconjugation metabolites were formed by attachment of the second glycone to an adjacent hydroxyl or to an existing glycone. Of the diconjugation metabolites, glucosylsulfate M10, diglucuronide M5, and glucuronide-glucoside M11 represent rarely observed phase II metabolites in mammals. The only unconjugated metabolite was generated through hydrolysis and was observed in rat, dog and human hepatocytes. ARQ 501 appeared less stable in human hepatocytes than in those of other species. To further elucidate the metabolism of ARQ 501 in extrahepatic sites, its metabolism in human kidney, lung and intestine cells was also studied, and only monoglucuronide M1 was observed in all the cell types examined.
12875346	Assessment of the bioequivalence of two oxcarbazepine oral suspensions versus a film-coated tablet in healthy subjects.	Oxcarbazepine (trileptal) oral suspension has been reformulated and a study was performed to compare the bioavailability after single doses and at steady state of the current and former oral suspension versus the marketed film-coated tablets and to compare the bioavailability of the current and former oral suspension. The results support the switch from the former oral suspension to the current oral suspension and also from both oral suspensions to the film-coated tablet and vice versa. The study was an open-label, single-center, 3-way crossover trial. Each treatment period consisted of a single dose of 600 mg oxcarbazepine on Day 1, 600 mg oxcarbazepine b.i.d. repeated administration from Day 4 up to including Day 7, and a final dose of 600 mg oxcarbazepine administered on the morning of Day 8. Blood samples were taken on Day 1, Day 7 and Day 8 (pre-dose). Plasma concentrations of the main metabolite of oxcarbazepine (MHD) were determined using a validated HPLC assay. The 2 oral suspensions were compared with the film-coated tablet as reference formulation under fasted conditions. Also the current oral suspension was compared with the former oral suspension. These comparisons were made using data following single dose administration and under steady state conditions. Plasma AUC for single dose and AUC(0-12h) at steady state and plasma Cmax, log-transformed (natural base) were used for the assessment of bioequivalence. The 90% confidence interval (CI) approach was used for testing bioequivalence. Bioequivalence was accepted if CI was contained within the region (0.8, 1.25). At steady state, both the former and the current oral suspensions showed bioequivalence with the film-coated tablet with respect to AUC and Cmax. The current oral suspension was also bioequivalent when compared to the former oral suspension with respect to AUC and Cmax. After single dose, the former oral suspension was bioequivalent when compared to the film-coated tablet with respect to both AUC and Cmax. However, the current oral suspension was bioequivalent to both the film-coated tablet and the former oral suspension with respect to AUC but not to Cmax.
17141582	Simultaneous determination of buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine and the enantiomers of methadone and its metabolite (EDDP) in human plasma by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry.	A previously reported enantioselective LC-MS assay for the determination of (R)- and (S)-methadone [Met] and (R)- and (S)-2-ethylidene-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenyl-pyrrolidine [EDDP] (the primary metabolite of Met) has been adapted for use in the simultaneous determination of the plasma concentrations of Met, EDDP, buprenorphine (Bu) and norbuprenorphine (norBu). All of the target compounds were separated within 15 min using an alpha1-acid glycoprotein chiral stationary phase, a mobile phase composed of acetonitrile: ammonium acetate buffer [10 mM, pH 7.0] in a ratio of 18:82 (v/v), a flow rate of 0.9 ml/min at 25 degrees C. Deuterium labeled compounds were used as internal standards [d4-Bu, d3-norBu, (R,S)-d3-Met and (R,S)-d3-EDDP] and linear relationships between peak height ratios and drug concentrations were obtained for Bu and norBu in the range 0.2-12 ng/ml with correlation coefficients greater than 0.999. The relative standard deviations (%R.S.D.) for the intra- and inter-day precision of the method were <4.5% and for accuracy was <4.0%. The method was validated and used to analyze plasma samples obtained from opioid dependent methadone-maintained adults enrolled in a research study.
8547185	Characteristics of human types 1, 2 and 3 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activities: oxidation/reduction and inhibition.	Following transfection of types 1, 2 and 3 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) cDNAs into transformed embryonal kidney (293) cells, we have characterized the selective directional and inhibitory characteristics of these activities. While homogenates of transfected cells could catalyze interconversion of the substrate and product, in agreement with the general belief on the activity of these enzymes, the same activities measured in intact cells, in order to better reflect the physiological conditions, showed an unidirectional reaction. Types 1 and 3 17 beta-HSD catalyzed the reduction of estrone to estradiol and 4-androstenedione to testosterone, respectively, while type 2 17 beta-HSD catalyzed the oxidative transformation of both testosterone and 17 beta-estradiol to 4-androstenedione and estrone, respectively. In addition, types 1, 2 and 3 17 beta-HSD activities showed different pH optima. While types 1 and 3 showed pH optimum values centered at around 5 and 6, respectively, type 2 17 beta-HSD activity, which preferentially, catalyzes the oxidation reaction, has higher activity at an alkaline pH (8-10). Differences in the optimum incubation temperatures were also observed: type 1 17 beta-HSD shows a relatively high temperature tolerance (55 degrees C). In contrast, type 2 and 3 functioned best at 37 degrees C. Types 1, 2 and 3 17 beta-HSD activities could be also differentiated by their sensitivity toward various specific inhibitors: type 1 was potently inhibited by an estradiol derivative containing a bromo/or iodopropyl group at position 16 alpha. On the other hand a derivative of estrone containing a spiro-gamma-lactone at position 17 showed a potent inhibitory effect on type 2 17 beta-HSD, whereas type 3 was strongly inhibited by 1,4-androstadiene-1,6,17- trione.
12535841	Quantification of the O- and N-demethylated metabolites of hydrocodone and oxycodone in human liver microsomes using liquid chromatography with ultraviolet absorbance detection.	High-performance liquid chromatographic assays for the O- and N-demethylated oxidative metabolites of hydrocodone and oxycodone formed in human liver microsomes are described. A solvent-solvent extraction/re-extraction procedure followed by reversed-phase HPLC with UV detection at 210 nm allows for the quantification of hydromorphone, norhydrocodone, oxymorphone and noroxycodone. Calibration curve concentration ranges were 0.63-400 microM (0.18-114 microg/ml) and 1.25-400 microM (0.36-114 microg/ml) for hydromorphone and norhydrocodone, respectively and 0.13-20 microM (0.04-6.03 microg/ml) and 1-200 microM (0.30-60 microg/ml) for oxymorphone and noroxycodone, respectively. Assay performance was determined by intra- and inter-assay precision and inaccuracies for quality control samples and was <15% for all metabolites at each quality control concentration. These methods provide good precision, accuracy and sensitivity for use in in vitro kinetic studies investigating the oxidative metabolism of hydrocodone and oxycodone in human liver microsomes.
17465639	Steady-state pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide in patients with mild and moderate liver cirrhosis.	Roflumilast and its primary N-oxide metabolite are targeted phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors with similar in vivo potency. Roflumilast is being developed for the treatment of inflammatory airway diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma. To investigate the effects of mild and moderate liver cirrhosis on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide. Patients with mild (n = 8, Child-Pugh A) and moderate (n = 8, Child-Pugh B) liver cirrhosis and healthy subjects (n = 8) matched with patients with cirrhosis with regard to sex, age and bodyweight received oral roflumilast 250 microg once daily for 14 days. Blood samples were collected for 24 hours after the last dose on day 14. Steady-state plasma concentrations of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide were determined using a validated high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry assay. The pharmacokinetics were compared between groups using ANOVA. In patients with liver cirrhosis, the average total exposure (area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 hours [AUC(24)]) of roflumilast was approximately 51% (Child-Pugh A) and 92% (Child-Pugh B) higher than in healthy subjects. In contrast, roflumilast maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) was unaltered in Child-Pugh A patients and was increased by 27% in Child-Pugh B patients. Changes in the AUC(24) of roflumilast N-oxide were less distinct, with 24% and 41% increases and corresponding C(max) increases of 26% and 40% in Child-Pugh A and B patients, respectively, compared with healthy subjects. Overall, changes in average potency-corrected exposure to the sum of the free fractions of both compounds were estimated to result in approximately 26% and 46% increases in total PDE4 inhibitory capacity (tPDE4i) in Child-Pugh A and B patients, respectively, relative to healthy subjects. Roflumilast was well tolerated. Mild and moderate liver cirrhosis resulted in distinct alterations of exposure to roflumilast but only in modest alterations of exposure to roflumilast N-oxide. The integrated exposure-weighted assessment of the observed pharmacokinetic changes of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide (tPDE4i) indicates modest average exposure increases to the sum of both compounds. These findings and the favourable tolerability profile suggest that roflumilast can be safely used in patients with mild and moderate liver cirrhosis without special precautions or dose adjustment.
15712284	Another designer steroid: discovery, synthesis, and detection of 'madol' in urine.	Madol (17alpha-methyl-5alpha-androst-2-en-17beta-ol) was identified in an oily product received by our laboratory in the context of our investigations of designer steroids. The product allegedly contained an anabolic steroid not screened for in routine sport doping control urine tests. Madol was synthesized by Grignard methylation of 5alpha-androst-2-en-17-one and characterized by mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy. We developed a method for rapid screening of urine samples by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) of trimethylsilylated madol (monitoring m/z 143, 270, and 345). A baboon administration study showed that madol and a metabolite are excreted in urine. In vitro incubation with human liver microsomes yielded the same metabolite. Madol is only the third steroid never commercially marketed to be found in the context of performance-enhancing drugs in sports.
20799690	National study of exposure to pesticides among professional applicators: an investigation based on urinary biomarkers.	Epidemiologic studies of pesticides have been subject to important biases arising from exposure misclassification. Although turf applicators are exposed to a variety of pesticides, these exposures have not been well characterized. This paper describes a repeated measures study of 135 TruGreen applicators over three spraying seasons via the collection of 1028 urine samples. These applicators were employed in six cities across the United States. Twenty-four-hour estimates (g) were calculated for the parent compounds 2,4-D, MCPA, mecoprop, dicamba, and imidacloprid and for the insecticide metabolites MPA and 6-CNA. Descriptive statistics were used to characterize the urinary levels of these pesticides, whereas mixed models were applied to describe the variance apportionment with respect to city, season, individual, and day of sampling. The contributions to the overall variance explained by each of these factors varied considerably by the type of pesticide. The implications for characterizing exposures in these workers within the context of a cohort study are discussed.
11386636	Screening procedure for detection of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and their metabolites in urine as part of a systematic toxicological analysis procedure for acidic drugs and poisons by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after extractive methylation.	Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely used as analgesic and anti-rheumatic drugs, and they are often misused. A gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) screening procedure was developed for their detection in urine as part of a systematic toxicological analysis procedure for acidic drugs and poisons after extractive methylation. The compounds were separated by capillary GC and identified by computerized MS in the full-scan mode. Using mass chromatography with the ions m/z 119, 135, 139, 152, 165, 229, 244, 266, 272, and 326, the possible presence of NSAIDs and their metabolites could be indicated. The identity of positive signals in such mass chromatograms was confirmed by comparison of the peaks underlying full mass spectra with the reference spectra recorded during this study. This method allowed the detection of therapeutic concentrations of acemetacin, acetaminophen (paracetamol), acetylsalicylic acid, diclofenac, diflunisal, etodolac, fenbufen, fenoprofen, flufenamic acid, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, indometacin, kebuzone, ketoprofen, lonazolac, meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid, mofebutazone, naproxen, niflumic acid, phenylbutazone, suxibuzone, tiaprofenic acid, tolfenamic acid, and tolmetin in urine samples. The overall recoveries of the different NSAIDs ranged between 50 and 80% with coefficients of variation of less than 15% (n = 5), and the limits of detection of the different NSAIDs were between 10 and 50 ng/mL (S/N = 3) in the full-scan mode. Extractive methylation has proved to be a versatile method for STA of various acidic drugs, poisons, and their metabolites in urine. It has also successfully been used for plasma analysis.
19251823	Interactions of olomoucine II with human liver microsomal cytochromes P450.	Olomoucine II is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor and a potential antineoplastic agent because it can arrest animal cell cycles. This study examines its interactions with human liver microsomal cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes. Spectroscopic and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods were used to estimate the degree of olomoucine II-mediated inhibition of enzymatic activities of eight drug-metabolizing P450s in vitro. In addition, mass spectrometry coupled with HPLC was used to identify an olomoucine II metabolite (2,5-dihydroxyroscovitine) formed in the reaction mixtures, and CYP3A4 was found to be responsible for the hydroxylation of the N(6)-benzyl ring at position 5, leading to this compound. Olomoucine II significantly inhibited the enzymatic activities of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and (to a lesser degree) CYP3A4. The results indicate that use of olomoucine II as a drug could affect the activities of CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2C9 in vivo. Hence, the clinical relevance of these interactions should be carefully evaluated.
3756845	Metabolism of tiazofurin by human erythrocytes and mononuclear blood cells in vitro.	In vitro studies of the uptake, metabolism, and release of tiazofurin by human red blood cells reveal extensive phosphorylation with intracellular trapping of drug predominantly as tiazofurin triphosphate. This phenomenon may explain, in part, the plasma pharmacokinetic profile of tiazofurin. Metabolism of tiazofurin to tiazofurin adenine dinucleotide, the presumed oncolytic metabolite, occurs in mononuclear blood cells but not in erythrocytes.
17091465	Effects of lactate and acetate on the determination of serum ethyl glucuronide by CZE.	The analysis of ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a marker of recent alcohol consumption, in serum with an optimized CZE assay is reported. The method uses a 0.1-mm id fused-silica capillary of 50 cm effective length that is coated with linear polyacrylamide, a pH 4.4 nicotinic acid/epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) BGE, reversed polarity and indirect analyte detection. The assay is based on a 1:1 dilution of serum with deionized water and has LODs for EtG, lactate and acetate of 3.8 x 10(-7) M, 2.60 x 10(-6 )M and 2.18 x 10(-6 )M, respectively. Separation of EtG from endogenous macro- and microcomponents (anionic serum components of high and low concentration, respectively) and its quantification are shown to be possible for a wide range of lactate (stacker) and acetate (destacker) concentrations, macrocomponents that have an impact on the CZE behavior of EtG and that change after intake of ethanol. The assay has been successfully applied to the analysis of EtG, lactate and acetate in (i) sera of volunteers that ingested known amounts of alcohol and (ii) samples of patients that were classified (teetotalers and social drinkers vs. alcohol abusers) via analysis of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin.
532540	Renal function and fluoride formation and excretion during enflurane anaesthesia.	Central circulation, renal function, and fluoride formation and excretion were studied in nine patients during enflurane anaesthesia and surgery. Cardiac output and mean systemic arterial pressure remained unchanged compared with preoperative control values. During anaesthesia and surgery, urine flow rate, inulin clearance, PAH clearance and fractional sodium excretion were 60, 65, 55, and 45% of control values, respectively. Mean peak plasma level of fluoride was 20.0 microM. It was reached 4 hours after termination of anaesthesia. Fluoride clearance (CF) decreased from 23.9 ml . min-1 to 2.7 ml . min-1 during anaesthesia. Postoperative, CF increased to 41.6 and 76.0 ml . min-1, respectively, during two consecutive measurement periods. There was no correlation between plasma fluoride levels and depression of any renal function variable.
23575872	Single-center evaluation of the single-dose pharmacokinetics of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist azilsartan medoxomil in renal impairment.	Azilsartan medoxomil (AZL-M) is a potent angiotensin II receptor blocker that decreases blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner. It is a pro-drug and not detected in blood after oral administration because of rapid hydrolysis to the active moiety, azilsartan (AZL). AZL undergoes further metabolism to the major metabolite M-II and minor metabolites. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AZL and its major metabolite. This was a single-center, open-label, phase I parallel-group study which examined the single-dose (40-mg) pharmacokinetics of AZL and M-II in 24 subjects with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis (n=6 per group), respectively, and healthy matched subjects (n=24). Renal impairment/disease did not cause clinically meaningful increases in exposure to AZL. M-II exposure was higher in all renally impaired subjects and highest in those with severe impairment (approx fivefold higher vs. control). M-II is pharmacologically inactive; increased exposure was not considered important in dose selection for AZL-M in subjects with renal impairment. Hemodialysis did not significantly remove AZL or M-II. Renal impairment had no clinically meaningful effect on the plasma protein binding of AZL or M-II. Single doses of AZL-M 40mg were well tolerated in all subject groups. Based on the pharmacokinetic and tolerability findings, no dose adjustment of AZL-M is required for subjects with any degree of renal impairment, including end-stage renal disease.
14669970	Stearic acid stimulates FA ethyl ester synthesis in HepG2 cells exposed to ethanol.	FA ethyl esters (FAEE) are nonoxidative metabolites of ethanol produced by the esterification of FA and ethanol. FAEE have been implicated as mediators of ethanol-induced organ damage in vivo and in vitro, and are markers of ethanol intake. Upon ethanol intake, FAEE are synthesized in the liver and pancreas in significant quantities. There is limited information on the stimulation of FAEE synthesis upon addition of exogenous FA in vitro. HepG2 cells were incubated with ethanol alone, ethanol with 25 microM linoleate, and ethanol with 25 microM stearate. The amount of FAEE in human hepatoblastoma (HepG2) cells was determined 1-3 h after ethanol and FA addition. Stearate increased the FAEE concentration in HepG2 cells when incubated with the cells for 1 h, whereas linoleate did not increase the cellular FAEE concentration at any time. Ethyl palmitate, ethyl stearate, and ethyl oleate were the predominant FAEE species identified in all cases, independent of the specific supplemental FA added to the medium.
16416302	Quantitative prediction of macrolide drug-drug interaction potential from in vitro studies using testosterone as the human cytochrome P4503A substrate.	Macrolide antibiotics are mechanism-based inactivators of CYP3A enzymes that exhibit varying degrees of inhibitory potency. Our aim was to predict quantitatively the drug-drug interaction (DDI) potential of five macrolides from in vitro studies using testosterone as the CYP3A substrate, and to compare the predictions generated from human liver microsomal and recombinant CYP3A4 data. The in vitro kinetic constants of CYP3A inactivation (K (I) and k (inact)) were estimated by varying the time of pre-incubation and the concentration of troleandomycin, erythromycin, clarithromycin, roxithromycin or azithromycin. CYP3A activity was determined from the measurement of testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation with human liver microsomes (HLM) and recombinant CYP3A4 as the enzyme sources. The mechanism-based pharmacokinetic model was fitted with inactivation data to predict the increase in oral area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) for midazolam. All five macrolides inactivated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation by HLM and recombinant CYP3A4 with k (inact) values in the range of 0.023 to 0.058 min(-1). The potency of inactivation (K (I)) was higher using recombinant CYP3A4 as the enzyme source. The oral AUCs for midazolam were predicted from HLM data to increase 16.6, 5.3, 4.6, 1.6 and 1.2-fold due to the inhibition of metabolic clearance by troleandomycin, erythromycin, clarithromycin, roxithromycin and azithromycin, respectively. These results are within the range of the AUC ratios reported for clinical DDI studies. The predicted AUC increases generated using recombinant CYP3A4 overestimated the magnitude of the DDIs. The DDI potential of five macrolide antibiotics was quantitatively predicted from in vitro studies using testosterone as the CYP3A substrate with HLM as the enzyme source.
22896728	Metabolism, excretion, and pharmacokinetics of ((3,3-difluoropyrrolidin-1-yl)((2S,4S)-4-(4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)piperazin-1-yl)pyrrolidin-2-yl)methanone, a dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitor, in rat, dog and human.	The disposition of 3,3-difluoropyrrolidin-1-yl{(2S,4S)-4-[4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)piperazin-1-yl]pyrrolidin-2-yl}methanone (PF-00734200), a dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor that progressed to phase 3 for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, was examined in rats, dogs, and humans after oral administration of a single dose of [(14)C]PF-00734200. Mean recoveries of administered radioactivity were 97.1, 92.2, and 87.2% in rats, dogs, and humans, respectively. The majority of radioactive dose was detected in the urine of dogs and humans and in the feces of rats. Absorption of PF-00734200 was rapid in all species, with maximal plasma concentrations of radioactivity achieved within 1 h after the dose. Circulating radioactivity was primarily composed of the parent drug (79.9, 80.2, and 94.4% in rat, dog, and human, respectively). The major route of metabolism was due to hydroxylation at the 5' position of the pyrimidine ring (M5) in all species. In vitro experiments with recombinant cytochrome P450 isoforms suggested that the formation of M5 was catalyzed both by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Molecular docking simulations showed that the 5' position of the pyrimidine moiety of PF-00734200 can access the heme iron-oxo of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 in an energetically favored orientation. Other metabolic pathways included amide hydrolysis (M2), N-dealkylation at the piperazine nitrogen (M3) and an unusual metabolite resulting from scission of the pyrimidine ring (M1). Phase II metabolic pathways included the following: carbamoyl glucuronidation (M9), glucosidation (M15) on the pyrrolidine nitrogen, and conjugation with creatinine to form an unusual metabolite/metabonate (M16). The data from these studies suggest that PF-00734200 is eliminated by both metabolism and renal clearance.
1989637	Determination of thiazole-4-carboxamide adenine dinucleotide (TAD) levels in mononuclear cells of leukemic patients treated with tiazofurin.	Tiazofurin is an oncolytic agent which has shown therapeutic activity in end-stage acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) and blast crisis of chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL-BC). Tiazofurin is anabolized to the active metabolite, thiazole-4-carboxamide adenine dinucleotide (TAD), which inhibits IMP dehydrogenase activity, leading to reduction of guanylate pools and cessation of cancer cell proliferation. The concentration of TAD in neoplastic cells of patients treated with tiazofurin should be a good indicator of sensitivity to the drug and also might herald the emergence of drug-resistant cells. Therefore, the precise quantitation of TAD in cancer cells during tiazofurin treatment is essential. In this paper we report a highly sensitive method for the determination of TAD in biological samples. With this technique, in addition to TAD, thirteen other biologically relevant adenine, guanine, cytosine and uridine nucleotides can be separated and quantitated accurately. TAD standard was separated on a Waters Partisil 10-SAX column in a RCM-10 module using an ammonium phosphate buffer system. TAD eluted at 21 min with a limit of detection of 15 pmol and linearity up to 3 nmol. The coefficient of variation was 0.6 +/- 0.1% for retention time and 2 +/- 0.3% for TAD concentration. Recovery of TAD was 96% with reproducibility of 98%. To examine the applicability of this method to a clinical setting, blood samples were obtained from a patient with CGL-BC and leukocytes were separated on a Ficoll-Hypaq gradient, extracted with trichloroacetic acid, and an aliquot was analyzed on HPLC. The TAD peak was identified by comparing the retention time and spectral analysis of the standard. After the patient was treated with a 2200 mg/m2 (12.7 mM) dose of tiazofurin, the TAD concentrations in the mononuclear cells at 2, 6, and 24 hr were 23.1, 13.6, and 0.8 microM. TAD levels at 2, 6, and 24 hr after a tiazofurin dose of 3300 mg/m2 (21.1 mM) were 42.8, 26.1, and 1.4 microM respectively.
15893782	Immunomodulatory effects of the fungicide Mancozeb in agricultural workers.	Available data suggest that ethylenebisdithiocarbamates (EBDCs) may have immunomodulatory effects. This study aimed to investigate the immunological profile of farmers exposed to Mancozeb, an EBDC fungicide, through the determination of several serum, cellular, and functional immune parameters. Twenty-six healthy subjects entered the study, 13 vineyards exposed to Mancozeb and 13 unexposed controls. Exposure was assessed through the determination of ethylentiourea (ETU) in urine. Complete and differential blood count, serum immunoglobulins, complement fractions, autoantibodies, lymphocyte subpopulations, proliferative response to mitogens, natural killer (NK) activity, and cytokine production were measured. Post-exposure samples showed ETU urine concentration significantly higher than pre-exposure and control groups. A significant increase in CD19+ cells, both percentage and absolute number, and a significant decrease in the percentage of CD25+ cells were found in post-exposure samples compared to controls. A statistically significant increase in the proliferative response to phorbol myristate acetate plus ionomycin (PMA + ionomycin) was observed in the post-exposure group compared to controls and baseline, while a significant reduction in LPS-induced TNF-alpha release in post-exposure samples was observed. Overall, our results suggest that low-level exposure to Mancozeb has slight immunomodulatory effects, and point out a method adequate to reveal immune-modifications in workers occupationally exposed to potential immunotoxic compounds, based on a whole blood assay.
17220563	In vivo evaluation of coumarin and nicotine as probe drugs to predict the metabolic capacity of CYP2A6 due to genetic polymorphism in Thais.	The association between the distribution characteristics of CYP2A6 catalytic activities toward nicotine and coumarin, and the frequency distribution of CYP2A6 variant alleles reported was estimated in 120 healthy Thais. The distributions of the subjects as classified by the amounts of 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-OHC) excreted in the urine and by cotinine/nicotine ratio in the plasma were clearly bimodal. However, the numbers of apparently poor metabolizers for coumarin and nicotine were different. The inter-individual variability in the in vivo dispositions of coumarin and nicotine closely related to the CYP2A6 genetic polymorphism. There was a close correlation between the rate of 7-OHC excretion in the urine and cotinine/nicotine ratio in the plasma among subjects (R=0.92, p<0.001). The frequency of CYP2A6 allele found in the present study was: CYP2A6*1A=32% (95% CI, 22.1-39.4%), CYP2A6*1B=27% (95% CI, 19.4-33.5%), CYP2A6*9=20% (95% CI, 17.6-23.3%), CYP2A6*4=14% (95% CI, 9.6-17.8%), CYP2A6*7=5% (95% CI, 3.7-9.4%), CYP2A6*10=2% (95% CI, 0.8-5.1%). Subjects having CYP2A6*1A/*1B were found to have a higher rate of 7-OHC excretion, as well as a higher cotinine/nicotine ratio in the plasma compared with those of the other genotypes. In contrast, subjects with CYP2A6*4/*7 and CYP2A6*7/*7 almost lacked any cotinine formation, whereas urinary 7-OHC was still detectable. CYP2A6*9 allele clearly resulted in reduced enzyme activities. Despite the absence of the homozygote for CYP2A6*10 allele, the presence of CYP2A6*10 allele significantly decreased the enzyme activities. The results of the present study demonstrate that in vivo phenotyping of CYP2A6 using nicotine and coumarin are not metabolically equivalent. Nicotine is a better probe according to its specificity, while coumarin is still valuable to be used for a routine CYP2A6 phenotyping since the test employs a non-invasive method.
35601	Determination of oxycodone in plasma and identification of a major metabolite.	An electron-capture GLC method is described for oxycodone and its major metabolite, noroxycodone, in plasma and urine. The method involves extraction of the two substances into benzene-isopropranol at pH 10.4, followed by back-extraction into 0.1 N HCl. The acid phase is washed with hexane and made alkaline prior to reextraction into benzene-isopropanol. The solvent is removed by evaporation, and the heptafluorobutyryl derivatives of the test substances are formed. After removal of excess reagent, oxycodone and noroxycodone are quantitated by GLC. The characteristics of both substances, with respect to plasma levels in dogs and analgesic activity in mice, are reported. Isolation of noroxycodone from human urine and its identification by TLC, GLC, and mass spectrometry are described.
16880629	Linear pharmacokinetics of micafungin and its active metabolites in Japanese pediatric patients with fungal infections.	The objective of this study was to propose the appropriate dosage regimen of micafungin for pediatric use, considering the effects of dose-linearity, age and other cofactors on the pharmacokinetics. Pharmacokinetic analysis of micafungin and its active metabolites (M1 and M2) after intravenous infusion at doses of 1 to 3 mg/kg was conducted for 19 Japanese pediatric patients (3 infants, 7 toddlers, and 9 pupils) with deep mycosis caused by either Aspergillus or Candida species. One patient was given the maximum dose of 6 mg/kg. The Cmax of micafungin increased in proportion to the dose. The mean values (S.D.) were 5.03 (2.33), 10.25 (4.45), 14.8 (5.52) and 21.1 microg/ml at 1, 2 , 3 and 6 mg/kg, respectively. These parameters were comparable to those seen in adults when the parameter was normalized by body weight. The elimination half life (t1/2) of micafungin over the dose range was apparently constant with the value of 13.1 h. There was no difference between the age groups observed. In fact, the metabolite concentrations were almost the same as those obtained for non-pediatric patients. Thus, micafungin showed the same dose-proportional pharmacokinetics in pediatric patients as it did in adults. No age dependent pharmacokinetics were observed in this study. It was concluded that the body weight adjustment was adequate for the treatment of micafungin in pediatric patients.
12482490	High-performance liquid chromatographic method for determination of amodiaquine, chloroquine and their monodesethyl metabolites in biological samples.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for determination of amodiaquine (AQ), desethylamodiaquine (DAQ), chloroquine (CQ) and desethylchloroquine (DCQ) in human whole blood, plasma and urine is reported. 4-(4-Dimethylamino-1-methylbutylamino)-7-chloroquinoline was used as internal standard. The drugs and the internal standard were extracted into di-isopropyl ether as bases and then re-extracted into an acidic aqueous phase with 0.1 M phosphate buffer at pH 4.0 for AQ samples and at pH 2.5 for CQ filter paper samples. A C(18) column was used and the mobile phase consisted of methanol-phosphate buffer (0.1 M, pH 3)-perchloric acid (250: 747.5:2.5, v/v). The absorbance of the drugs was monitored at 333 nm and no endogenous compound interfered at this wavelength. The limit of quantification in whole blood, plasma and urine was 100 nM for AQ and DAQ (sample size 100 microliter) as well as for CQ and DCQ in blood samples dried on filter paper. For 1000 microliter AQ and DAQ samples, the limit of quantification was 10 nM in all three biological fluids. The within-assay and between-assay coefficients of variations were always <10% at the limits of quantification. Plasma should be preferred for the determination of AQ and DAQ since use of whole blood may be associated with stability problems.
17309281	Prediction of in vivo potential for metabolic activation of drugs into chemically reactive intermediate: correlation of in vitro and in vivo generation of reactive intermediates and in vitro glutathione conjugate formation in rats and humans.	The covalent binding of reactive intermediates to macromolecules might have potential involvement in severe adverse drug reactions. Thus, quantification of reactive metabolites is necessary during the early stage of drug discovery to avoid serious toxicity. In this study, the relationship between covalent binding and glutathione (GSH) conjugate formation in rat and human liver microsomes were investigated using 10 representative radioactive compounds that have been reported as hepatotoxic or having other toxicity derived from their reactive intermediates: acetaminophen, amodiaquine, carbamazepine, clozapine, diclofenac, furosemide, imipramine, indomethacin, isoniazid, and tienilic acid, all at a concentration of 10 microM. The GSH conjugate formation rate correlates well with the covalent binding of radioactivity (both rat and human, r2 = 0.93), which suggests that quantification of the GSH conjugate can be used to estimate covalent binding. To quantify the GSH-conjugation rate with non-radiolabeled compounds in vitro, the validation study for the determination of GSH conjugate formation using 35S-GSH by radio-HPLC was useful to predict metabolic activation. Following oral administration of 20 mg/kg of the radiolabeled compounds to rats, radioactivity that covalently bound to plasma and liver proteins was determined. The in vivo maximum covalent binding level in liver based on the free fraction of plasma area under the concentration curve (AUC) and in vitro covalent binding rate was found to correlate well (r2 = 0.79). Therefore, this model for in vitro covalent binding studies in human and rat and in vivo rat studies might be useful in predicting human metabolic activation of compounds.
16637230	Difference in plasma metabolite concentration after ingestion of lemon flavonoids and their aglycones in humans.	The concentrations of metabolites in human plasma after ingestion of flavanone glycosides (FG) and their aglycones (FA) in lemon were examined. FG consisting abundantly of eriocitrin were prepared from lemon peel and FA consisting abundantly of eriodictyol were prepared from FG by treatment with beta-glucosidase. Eriodictyol, homoeriodictyol, and hesperetin in plasma up to 4 h after ingestion of FG with water or FA with water by subjects were not detected in plasma of non-enzyme treatment but in plasma after treatment with beta-glucronidase and sulfatase. Metabolites in plasma after ingestion of FG and FA in humans were shown to exist as the glucuro- and/or sulfo-conjugates of eriodictyol, homoeriodictyol, and hesperetin. After ingestion of FA, the concentration of metabolites in plasma exhibited a high maximum peak at 1 h. The AUC (area under the blood concentration time curve) level of metabolites of FA was higher than that of FG. FA were suggested to be absorbed faster and in higher amounts than FG. The AUC of metabolites in subject plasma after ingestion of FG with flavonoid-depleted lemon juice was shown to change to a low level in comparison with that of FG with water. The maximum concentration peak of metabolites in plasma was faster at 0.5 h than FA with water but the AUC level was similar to FA with water, when subjects ingested FA with vodka (40%, ethanol). The absorption hour of FG and FA was shown to be affected by the co-existing solution.
17477947	The environmental carcinogen 3-nitrobenzanthrone and its main metabolite 3-aminobenzanthrone enhance formation of reactive oxygen intermediates in human A549 lung epithelial cells.	The environmental contaminant 3-nitrobenzanthrone (3-NBA) is highly mutagenic and a suspected human carcinogen. We aimed to evaluate whether 3-NBA is able to deregulate critical steps in cell cycle control and apoptosis in human lung epithelial A549 cells. Increased intracellular Ca(2+) and caspase activities were detected upon 3-NBA exposure. As shown by cell cycle analysis, an increased number of S-phase cells was observed after 24 h of treatment with 3-NBA. Furthermore, 3-NBA was shown to inhibit cell proliferation when added to subconfluent cell cultures. The main metabolite of 3-NBA, 3-ABA, induced statistically significant increases in tail moment as judged by alkaline comet assay. The potential of 3-NBA and 3-ABA to enhance the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was demonstrated by flow cytometry using 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-diacetate (DCFH-DA). The enzyme inhibitors allopurinol, dicumarol, resveratrol and SKF525A were used to assess the impact of metabolic conversion on 3-NBA-mediated ROS production. Resveratrol decreased dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence by 50%, suggesting a role for CYP1A1 in 3-NBA-mediated ROS production. Mitochondrial ROS production was significantly attenuated (20% reduction) by addition of rotenone (complex I inhibition) and thenoyltrifluoroacetone (TTFA, complex II inhibition). Taken together, the results of the present study provide evidence for a genotoxic potential of 3-ABA in human epithelial lung cells. Moreover, both compounds lead to increased intracellular ROS and create an environment favorable to DNA damage and the promotion of cancer.
15318121	On sensitivity, specificity, and the influence of various parameters on ethyl glucuronide levels in urine--results from the WHO/ISBRA study.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a direct ethanol metabolite, seems to meet the need for a sensitive and specific marker for monitoring recent alcohol consumption in different settings. Our aim was to study sensitivity, specificity, and the influence of various parameters on EtG levels in urine. Urine samples for a total of 453 patients (373 male, 80 female) were statistically analyzed. The mean age was 37.1 years (median 36, SD 12.59), body mass index was 24.7, total ethanol consumed last month was 1817.66 g (each median), and 80 patients reported cannabis use within the last 30 days. Determination of EtG was performed with a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method with deuterium-labeled EtG as internal standard. For EtG in urine, a good correlation was found with other state markers and days of sobriety. In a regression analysis, age, gender, marijuana use, kidney disease, and total grams of ethanol consumed last month were the variables that significantly influenced EtG levels in contrast to race, smoking, body mass index, cirrhosis of liver, age began drinking regularly, packs of cigarettes smoked last month, and total body water. Furthermore, in a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis to distinguish between nondrinkers and individuals sober > 4 days versus individuals drinking in the recent 4 days, area under the curve was 0.834. At a cutoff of 0.145 mg/liter, sensitivity was 83.5% and specificity 68.3%. A receiver operating characteristic curve was calculated for lifetime alcohol abuse or dependence against those who had never been abusers or dependent. In this case, subjects were either never dependent or lifetime dependent, but those currently dependent were excluded. The resulting area under the curve was 0.694. At a cutoff of 0.145 mg/liter, sensitivity was 73.8% and specificity 60.3%. For those with a self-reported sobriety of less than 24 hr, the area under the curve was 0.899, sensitivity was 90.8%, and specificity was 76.5% at a cutoff of 0.435 mg/liter when we calculated nondrinkers and light drinkers against heavy drinkers and drinkers needing treatment. Cannabis-using patients showed significant differences with regard to almost all state markers when compared with nonconsuming subjects. Age, gender, marijuana use, kidney disease, and total grams of ethanol consumed last month should be taken into consideration when interpreting results of EtG in urine. Sensitivity and specificity seem promising. Cannabis use can be regarded as an indicator for other serious mental problems in alcohol-using subjects.
20036472	Urine testing for norcodeine, norhydrocodone, and noroxycodone facilitates interpretation and reduces false negatives.	Urine drug testing of pain patients provides objective information to health specialists regarding patient compliance, diversion, and concurrent illicit drug use. Interpretation of urine test results for semi-synthetic opiates can be difficult because of complex biotransformations of parent drug to metabolites that are also available commercially and may be abused. Normetabolites such as norcodeine, norhydrocodone and noroxycodone are unique metabolites that are not available commercially. Consequently, detection of normetabolite in specimens not containing parent drug, provides conclusive evidence that the parent drug was consumed. The goal of this study was to evaluate the prevalence and patterns of the three normetabolites, norcodeine, norhydrocodone and noroxycodone, in urine specimens of pain patients treated with opiates. Urine specimens were hydrolyzed with beta-glucuronidase and analyzed by a validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay for the presence of codeine, norcodeine, morphine, hydrocodone, norhydrocodone, hydromorphone, dihydrocodeine, oxycodone, noroxycodone, and oxymorphone. The limit of quantitation (LOQ) for these analytes was 50ng/mL. The study was approved by an Institutional Review Board. Of the total specimens (N=2654) tested, 71.4% (N=1895) were positive (>or=LOQ) for one or more of the analytes. The prevalence (%) of positive results for codeine, hydrocodone and oxycodone was 1.2%, 26.1%, and 36.2%, respectively, and the prevalence of norcodeine, norhydrocodone and noroxycodone was 0.5%, 22.1%, and 31.3%, respectively. For specimens containing normetabolite, the prevalence of norcodeine, norhydrocodone and noroxycodone in the absence of parent drug was 8.6%, 7.8% and 9.4%, respectively. From one-third to two-thirds of these specimens also did not contain other metabolites that could have originated from the parent drug. Consequently, the authors conclude that inclusion of norcodeine, norhydrocodone and noroxycodone is useful in interpretation of opiate drug source and reduces potential false negatives that would occur without tests for these unique metabolites.
19996149	In vitro characterization and pharmacokinetics of dapagliflozin (BMS-512148), a potent sodium-glucose cotransporter type II inhibitor, in animals and humans.	(2S,3R,4R,5S,6R)-2-(3-(4-Ethoxybenzyl)-4-chlorophenyl)-6-hydroxymethyl-tetrahydro-2H-pyran-3,4,5-triol (dapagliflozin; BMS-512148) is a potent sodium-glucose cotransporter type II inhibitor in animals and humans and is currently under development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The preclinical characterization of dapagliflozin, to allow compound selection and prediction of pharmacological and dispositional behavior in the clinic, involved Caco-2 cell permeability studies, cytochrome P450 (P450) inhibition and induction studies, P450 reaction phenotyping, metabolite identification in hepatocytes, and pharmacokinetics in rats, dogs, and monkeys. Dapagliflozin was found to have good permeability across Caco-2 cell membranes. It was found to be a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) but not a significant P-gp inhibitor. Dapagliflozin was not found to be an inhibitor or an inducer of human P450 enzymes. The in vitro metabolic profiles of dapagliflozin after incubation with hepatocytes from mice, rats, dogs, monkeys, and humans were qualitatively similar. Rat hepatocyte incubations showed the highest turnover, and dapagliflozin was most stable in human hepatocytes. Prominent in vitro metabolic pathways observed were glucuronidation, hydroxylation, and O-deethylation. Pharmacokinetic parameters for dapagliflozin in preclinical species revealed a compound with adequate oral exposure, clearance, and elimination half-life, consistent with the potential for single daily dosing in humans. The pharmacokinetics in humans after a single dose of 50 mg of [(14)C]dapagliflozin showed good exposure, low clearance, adequate half-life, and no metabolites with significant pharmacological activity or toxicological concern.
20333362	Beta-keto amphetamines: studies on the metabolism of the designer drug mephedrone and toxicological detection of mephedrone, butylone, and methylone in urine using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	In recent years, a new class of designer drugs has appeared on the drugs of abuse market in many countries, namely, the so-called beta-keto (bk) designer drugs such as mephedrone (bk-4-methylmethamphetamine), butylone (bk-MBDB), and methylone (bk-MDMA). The aim of the present study was to identify the metabolites of mephedrone in rat and human urine using GC-MS techniques and to include mephedrone, butylone, and methylone within the authors' systematic toxicological analysis (STA) procedure. Six phase I metabolites of mephedrone were detected in rat urine and seven in human urine suggesting the following metabolic steps: N-demethylation to the primary amine, reduction of the keto moiety to the respective alcohol, and oxidation of the tolyl moiety to the corresponding alcohols and carboxylic acid. The STA procedure allowed the detection of mephedrone, butylone, methylone, and their metabolites in urine of rats treated with doses corresponding to those reported for abuse of amphetamines. Besides macro-based data evaluation, an automated evaluation using the automated mass spectral deconvolution and identification system was performed. Mephedrone and butylone could be detected also in human urine samples submitted for drug testing. Assuming similar kinetics in humans, the described STA procedure should be suitable for proof of an intake of the bk-designer drugs in human urine.
15352018	Enantioselective analysis of primaquine and its metabolite carboxyprimaquine by capillary electrophoresis.	An enantioselective capillary electrophoresis method for the simultaneous determination of primaquine (PQ) and carboxyprimaquine (CPQ) in rat liver mitochondrial fraction, suitable for in vitro metabolism studies is presented. The drug and metabolite were extracted by liquid-liquid extraction using ethyl ether. The enantiomers were resolved in a fused-silica capillary, 50 microm inside diameter (ID) and 24 cm of effective length, using an electrolyte solution consisting of a 20 mmol/L sodium phosphate solution, pH 3.0, and 10% w/v maltodextrin. Hydrodynamic sample injection was used with a 10 s injection time at 50 mbar pressure. The applied voltage was 22 kV and the capillary temperature was controlled at 20 degrees C. Detection was carried out at 264 nm. Under these conditions, the enantiomeric fractions of the drug and of its metabolite were analyzed within 6 min. The extraction procedure was efficient in removing endogenous interferents and low values (<10%) for the coefficients of variation and deviation from theoretical values were demonstrated for both within-day and between-day assays. The method described allows the determination of PQ and CPQ enantiomers as low as 100 and 40 ng/mL, respectively. After validation, the method was used for an in vitro metabolism study of PQ. The results showed that the enantiomer (-)-PQ was preferentially metabolized to (-)-CPQ.
3838755	63Ni electron-capture gas chromatographic assay for buprenorphine and metabolites in human urine and feces.	A 63Ni electron-capture gas chromatographic assay is described for buprenorphine, a potent narcotic agonist--antagonist. In addition, the assay is useful for the measurement of the metabolite norbuprenorphine and demethoxybuprenorphine, a rearrangement product resulting when buprenorphine is exposed to acid and heat. An extraction procedure was developed which optimized recovery of buprenorphine from biological samples and produced minimal background interferences and emulsion problems. Extract residues were derivatized with pentafluoropropionic anhydride and assayed by gas chromatography. Samples were analyzed with and without enzyme hydrolysis, thus providing a selective and sensitive assay for both free and conjugated buprenorphine, norbuprenorphine and demethoxybuprenorphine. The lower limits of detection following extraction of a 1-ml sample were ca. 10 ng/ml for buprenorphine and demethoxybuprenorphine and 5 ng/ml for norbuprenorphine. Application of the assay to human samples following a 40-mg oral dose of buprenorphine produced no evidence for the presence of demethoxybuprenorphine in urine or feces. Norbuprenorphine (free and conjugated) was present in urinary and fecal samples; buprenorphine (free and conjugated) was found in high amounts only in feces and in trace amounts in urine as conjugated buprenorphine. The urinary and fecal excretion pattern observed for a human subject following oral dosing of buprenorphine suggests enterohepatic circulation of buprenorphine.
19377096	1,4-Diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(methylthio)butadiene (U0126) enhances the cytotoxicity of combretastatin A4 independently of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase.	Combretastatin A4 (CA4) is a novel vascular-disrupting agent that has shown promising anticancer effects through its inhibition of microtubule assembly and subsequent disruption of tumor blood flow. In this report, we demonstrate that 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(methylthio)butadiene (U0126), a selective inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), significantly enhances the cytotoxicity of CA4 in BEL-7402 cells, independently of MEK inhibition. This independence is evidenced by the fact that another, more specific MEK inhibitor, PD0325901 [N-[(R)-2,3-dihydroxy-propoxy]-3,4-difluoro-2-[2-fluoro-4-iodo-phenylamino]-benzamide], does not have the same effect as U0126. The disassembled microtubules are able to reassemble in the later stages of CA4 treatment, because of the inactivating glucuronidation of CA4. U0126, but not PD0325901, inhibits CA4 glucuronidation, thereby blocking microtubule reassembly and enhancing CA4-induced G(2)/M cell-cycle arrest. Consistent with this, U0126 significantly enhances CA4-induced cytotoxicity for cells in which CA4 glucuronidation occurs, but not for cells in which such glucuronidation does not occur. These results suggest that great caution should be exercised when interpreting data obtained using U0126 or when CA4 is combined with inhibitors of glucuronidation in clinical practice. It is most important to note that these findings indicate that the combination of CA4 with inhibitors of glucuronidation may be a novel and rational strategy for cancer therapy.
1629288	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of spironolactone and its metabolites in human biological fluids after solid-phase extraction.	A simple and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic procedure to determine spironolactone and its three major metabolites in biological specimens is described. The assay involves sequential extraction on C18 and CN solid phases, and subsequent separation on a reversed-phase column. In plasma samples, spironolactone and its metabolites were completely separated within 8 min using an isocratic mobile phase, while in urine samples a methanol gradient was necessary to achieve a good separation within 14 min. Recoveries for all analytes were greater than 80% in plasma and 72% in urine. Linear responses were observed for all compounds in the range 6.25-400 ng/ml for plasma and 31.25-2000 ng/ml for urine. The plasma and urine methods were precise (coefficient of variation from 0.8 to 12.5%) and accurate (-12.1% to 7.4% of the nominal values) for all compounds. The assay proved to be suitable for the pharmacokinetic study of spironolactone in healthy human subjects.
22582265	The identification of the urinary metabolites of 3-(4-methoxybenzoyl)-1-pentylindole (RCS-4), a novel cannabimimetic, by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	3-(4-Methoxybenzoyl)-1-pentylindole (RCS-4), a synthetic indole-derived cannabimimetic, was first reported to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction via the Early Warning System by Hungarian authorities in 2010 and later identified in head shop test purchases in Ireland. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, we have identified a series of RCS-4 metabolites in urine samples from individuals admitted to hospitals with symptoms of drug intoxication. The metabolites were tentatively identified as products of (i) aromatic monohydroxylation; (ii) dihydroxylation; (iii) aromatic hydroxylation/oxidation of the N-pentyl chain to a ketone; (iv) O-demethylation; (v) O-demethylation/monohydroxylation of N-pentyl chain; (vi) O-demethylation/oxidation of the N-pentyl chain to a ketone; (vii) O-demethylation/aromatic hydroxylation/oxidation of the N-pentyl chain to a ketone; (viii) N-depentylation/aromatic monohydroxylation; and (ix) N and O-dealkylation. The parent compound was not detected. The O-demethylated metabolites were found to be the most useful metabolic markers for the identification of RCS-4 ingestion.
18255358	Determination of N-desethylamodiaquine by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry: application to in vitro drug metabolism studies.	The antimalarial drug amodiaquine is extensively metabolized to N-desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ) by cytochrome P450 2C8 (CYP2C8). DEAQ formation is an enzyme specific reaction that is used to quantify in vitro CYP2C8 activity. A rapid and sensitive method for the determination of DEAQ in human liver microsomes was developed using hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (HILIC-MS/MS). Microsomal incubation samples were processed by protein precipitation with acetonitrile. The analytes were separated on a BETASIL Silica-100 (50mmx2.1mm, 5microm) column by isocratic elution at a flow rate of 220microl/min with a mobile phase consisting of 85% acetonitrile containing 5mM ammonium acetate and 0.1% formic acid. Detection was by positive electrospray ionization on a TSQ Quantum Discovery triple quadrupole mass spectrometer operated in the selective reaction monitoring mode. The precursor-product ion pair was m/z 328-->283 for DEAQ and m/z 331-->283 for DEAQ-d(3). The lower limit of quantification was 10nM for DEAQ and linearity was observed over the concentration range of 10-1500nM. Intra- and inter-day accuracy and precision were within 3.4 and 7.0%, respectively. The method was successfully applied to CYP2C8 drug metabolism studies in pooled human liver microsomes.
11920947	An analytical method for irinotecan (CPT-11) and its metabolites using a high-performance liquid chromatography: parallel detection with fluorescence and mass spectrometry.	Irinotecan or 7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecin (CPT-11) is an anticancer pro-drug used in the treatment of many types of cancer. We describe here the validation of an analytical method for CPT-11 and its metabolites, including an active metabolite, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), its glucuronidated form, SN-38G, and several cytochrome P450 3A-mediated products such as 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecin (APC) using a high-performance liquid chromatography connected to parallel fluorescence and mass spectrometry detection systems. This method is characterized as follows: (1) simple extraction of the analytes from biomaterials with perchloric acid/methanol; (2) sensitive quantitation of major metabolites (SN-38G, SN-38 and APC) with a fluorescence detector (FLD), where the limits of quantitation by FLD were 2.5 ng/mL for SN-38G and APC, 5 ng/mL for CPT-11 and 1 ng/mL for SN-38, respectively; (3) parallel selective monitoring of the metabolites including minor metabolites with a mass selected detector (MSD). There was no observed interference by other drugs expected to be co-administered. This method showed its usefulness by identifying a novel metabolite produced in human hepatic microsomes. The results indicate that this combination of FLD and MSD enables a highly selective analysis of CPT-11 and its metabolites, and is useful for studies both in vivo and in vitro.
19554330	Effects of bevacizumab on plasma concentration of irinotecan and its metabolites in advanced colorectal cancer patients receiving FOLFIRI with bevacizumab as second-line chemotherapy.	Bevacizumab (BV) prolongs the survival of colorectal cancer patients when combined with irinotecan (CPT-11)-based regimens. In the AVF2107g study, the area under the curve (AUC) ratio for bolus CPT-11/5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/leucovorin (LV) (IFL) with the BV arm to bolus IFL with placebo indicated that SN-38 concentrations may have been increased in subjects receiving BV. However, the mechanism underlying such increase remains unclear, and the difference might be caused by an imbalance between the two arms and a possible inter-subject variability of CPT-11 metabolism. Within-subject comparisons were used to evaluate the effect of BV on advanced colorectal cancer patients when administered with the FOLFIRI regimen as second-line chemotherapy. Ten advanced colorectal cancer patients received the FOLFIRI regimen every 2 weeks. At cycle 1, BV was administered following FOLFIRI administration to allow baseline pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of CPT-11 and its metabolites. From cycle 2, BV was administered just before FOLFIRI administration. Plasma samples were collected under the same condition (at cycle 3). There were no significant differences in the Cmax and AUC0-infinity of CPT-11, SN-38, and SN-38G between cycle 1 (without BV) and cycle 3 (with BV). PK parameters of CPT-11, SN-38, and SN-38G were not significantly affected by BV. There were no significant differences in the changes in the AUC ratio of CPT-11 to SN-38 between cycles 1 and 3, as well as in the ratio of SN-38 to SN-38G. BV does not affect the plasma concentration of CPT-11 and its metabolites on FOLFIRI regimen.
18191932	Simultaneous determination of GFA and its active metabolites in human plasma by liquid chromatography electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and its application to pharmacokinetic studies.	A sensitive and rapid liquid chromatography electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS) method has been developed and validated for simultaneous quantification of guanfu base A (GFA) and its metabolites guanfu base I (GFI) and guanfu alcohol-amine (AA) in human plasma with phenoprolamine hydrochloride (DDPH) as the internal standard. The analytes were extracted from human plasma by using liquid-liquid extraction with ethyl acetate and the LC separation was performed on a Diamonsil C(18) analytical column (150 mm x 2.1 mm i.d., 5 microm). The MS acquisition was performed in selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode of positive ions. Analysis was carried out in SIM mode at m/z 430.25 for GFA [M+H](+), m/z 388.25 for GFI [M+H](+), m/z 346.25 for AA [M+H](+) and m/z 344.20 for the IS DDPH [M+H](+). The calibration curves were linear over the range of 50-5000 ng/mL for GFA and 5-1000 ng/mL for GFI and AA, with coefficients of correlation above 0.999. The lower limit of quantification for GFA was 1 ng/mL, while for GFI and AA were both 5 ng/mL. The intra- and inter-day precisions (CV) of analysis were within 9%, and the accuracy ranged from 91% to 108%. The overall recoveries for GFA, GFI and AA were about 94.2%, 87.8% and 80.6%, respectively. The total LC-MS run-time was only 5.5 min. This quantitation method was successfully applied to the simultaneous determination of GFA and its metabolites in human plasma for the metabolic study and pharmacokinetic evaluation.
17913795	Pharmacokinetics and metabolic profile of free, conjugated, and total silymarin flavonolignans in human plasma after oral administration of milk thistle extract.	Silymarin, a mixture of polyphenolic flavonoids extracted from milk thistle (Silybum marianum), is composed mainly of silychristin, silydianin, silybin A, silybin B (SB(B)), isosilybin A (ISB(A)), and isosilybin B. In this study, the plasma concentrations of free (unconjugated), conjugated (sulfated and glucuronidated), and total (free and conjugated) silymarin flavonolignans were measured using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry, after a single oral dose of 600 mg of standardized milk thistle extracts to three healthy volunteers. Pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that silymarin flavonolignans were rapidly eliminated with short half-lives (1-3 and 3-8 h for free and conjugated, respectively). The AUC(0-->infinity) values of the conjugated silymarin flavonolignans were 4- to 30-fold higher than those of their free fractions, with SB(B) (mean AUC(0-->infinity) = 51 and 597 microg x h/l for free and conjugated, respectively) and ISB(A) (mean AUC(0-->infinity) = 30 and 734 microg x h/l for free and conjugated, respectively) exhibiting higher AUC(0-->infinity) values in comparison with other flavonolignans. Near the plasma peak times (1-3 h), the free, sulfated, and glucuronidated flavonolignans represented approximately 17, 28, and 55% of the total silymarin, respectively. In addition, the individual silymarin flavonolignans exhibited quite different plasma profiles for both the free and conjugated fractions. These data suggest that, after oral administration, silymarin flavonolignans are quickly metabolized to their conjugates, primarily forming glucuronides, and the conjugates are primary components present in human plasma.
4082631	The quantitative disposition of 3-O-methyl-(+)-[U-14C]catechin in man following oral administration.	Three young male volunteers excreted 51.5, 33.6 and 55.9% of a single 2 g oral dose of radiolabelled 3-O-methyl-(+)-catechin in urine within 120 h of administration. Excretion of the unchanged compound, however, accounted for only 0.7, 0.1 and 0.2% of the dose. The major urinary metabolites were glucuronides of 3,3'-O-dimethyl-(+)-catechin (15.8% dose) and a glucuronide and a sulphate of 3-O-methyl-(+)-catechin (11.4% and 10.6% dose, respectively). No evidence for demethylation was obtained. 3-O-Methyl-(+)-catechin was detected and measured in plasma by h.p.l.c. 0.5-12 h after administration. Peak levels (11-18 micrograms/ml) were attained within two hours of administration and the half-life of removal from plasma was approx. 140 min. Metabolism of 3-O-methyl-(+)-catechin in man was found to vary significantly from other species, as methylated metabolites (3'-O-methyl ethers) in man represented only about 53% of the urinary metabolites, whereas in the mouse, rat and marmoset, 3'-O-methylation was almost quantitative (Hackett and Griffiths 1981). The glucuronic acid conjugates of 3-O-methyl-(+)-catechin detected in man also differed from those previously reported in the rat. Additionally, sulphate conjugation of 3-O-methyl-(+)-catechin was observed in man although not in other species. 3-O-Methyl-(+)-catechin, unlike (+)-catechin, did not undergo ring fission.
15770075	Influence of itraconazole co-administration and CYP2D6 genotype on the pharmacokinetics of the new antipsychotic ARIPIPRAZOLE.	The results of in vitro studies indicated that ARIPIPRAZOLE, a newly developed antipsychotic, is mainly metabolized by the human cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. The objective of the present study was to investigate the influence of itraconazole (hereafter referred to as ITZ) co-administration (CYP3A4 inhibition) on the pharmacokinetics of ARIPIPRAZOLE administered to 24 healthy adult male volunteers in a fasting condition. The influence of CYP3A4 inhibition was also examined by CYP2D6 genotype. All subjects were administered a single oral dose of ARIPIPRAZOLE alone in Period I and a single oral dose of ARIPIPRAZOLE following administration of ITZ at 100 mg/day for 7 consecutive days in Period II. The pharmacokinetic parameters of ARIPIPRAZOLE and its main metabolite OPC-14857 were determined. Co-administration of ITZ increased the Cmax, AUC336 hr, and t1/2,z of ARIPIPRAZOLE and OPC-14857 by 19.4%, 48.0%, and 18.6% and by 18.6%, 38.8%, and 53.4%, respectively. By co-administration of ITZ, the CL/F of ARIPIPRAZOLE in extensive metabolizers was decreased by 26.6%, with an even greater decrease (47.3%) in intermediate metabolizers. For the co-administration period, the CL/F of ARIPIPRAZOLE in intermediate metabolizers was about half of that in extensive metabolizers. For Cmax, there was no significant difference between extensive metabolizers and intermediate metabolizers, and the percent change by co-administration of ITZ was less than 20% in both extensive metabolizers and intermediate metabolizers. For OPC-14857, the t(max) in intermediate metabolizers was longer than that in extensive metabolizers, with the difference being amplified by co-administration of ITZ. The AUC336 hr showed similar increases by co-administration of ITZ in all genotypes. The urinary 6beta-hydroxycortisol/cortisol concentration ratio following ITZ administration for 7 consecutive days was about half of that before the start of ITZ administration, indicating that CYP3A4 metabolic activity was inhibited by administration of ITZ. The influence of CYP3A4 inhibition on the pharmacokinetics of ARIPIPRAZOLE was not considered to be clinically significant. On the other hand, definite differences in pharmacokinetics were observed between CYP2D6 genotypes.
19015855	Disposition of desipramine, a sensitive cytochrome P450 2D6 substrate, when coadministered with intravenous temsirolimus.	Intravenous (i.v.) temsirolimus, a novel inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), is approved for treatment of renal cell carcinoma. In vitro studies with pooled human liver microsomes showed that temsirolimus and its principal metabolite, sirolimus, inhibit the CYP2D6 isozyme (K(i) = 1.5 and 5 microM, respectively), indicating potential for pharmacokinetic interaction with agents that are substrates of CYP2D6. This 2-period study in healthy subjects investigated the pharmacokinetics of a single oral 50-mg dose of the CYP2D6 substrate desipramine, first without and subsequently with a single coadministered i.v. 25-mg dose of temsirolimus. The study population consisted of 25 males and 1 female; 10 were black, 12 were white, and 4 were of other races. Plasma and whole blood samples were available from all 26 subjects in period 1 following oral desipramine and from 23 subjects in period 2 following oral desipramine and i.v. temsirolimus coadministration. The 90% confidence intervals for least squares geometric mean ratios of desipramine and 2-hydroxy-desipramine C(max), AUC(T), and AUC were within 80-125%, indicating that parameter differences did not manifest into clinically relevant exposure changes. A single i.v. 25-mg dose of temsirolimus, alone or with desipramine, was well tolerated in healthy subjects. A single i.v. 25-mg dose of temsirolimus did not alter disposition of desipramine. Temsirolimus i.v. 25 mg may be safely administered with agents metabolized through the CYP2D6 pathway, but vigilance for drug interaction is warranted in patients with advanced malignancies.
15889903	Uptake of diet resveratrol into the human low-density lipoprotein. Identification and quantification of resveratrol metabolites by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry.	In this paper, a sensitive, precise, and selective analytical method has been developed for the identification and quantification of resveratrol metabolites in human low-density lipoprotein (LDL) after moderate consumption of red wine, using high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray in tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). From different extraction procedures tested, solid-phase extraction was selected to minimize matrix effects reaching the highest sensitivity. Standard calibration curves prepared in human LDL for trans-resveratrol were linear over a range of 0.44-438.59 pmol/mL. The accuracy and interassay precision of this LC-MS/MS assay for resveratrol showed a coefficient of variation of <6.0%. The method allows detection and quantification limits for resveratrol in LDL at 0.15 and 0.44 pmol/mL, respectively. Results to date indicate that resveratrol metabolites were incorporated into LDL after a moderate intake of red wine. The metabolites identified in LDL were trans-resveratrol-3-O-glucuronide, cis-resveratrol-3-O-glucuronide, and cis-resveratrol-3-O-glucoside, as well as free trans-resveratrol. To our knowledge, it is the first time that a polyphenol from red wine, specifically resveratrol, has been identified in human LDL after moderate intake of red wine. Furthermore, these findings suggest that these compounds may deliver their antioxidant effect to LDL.
2081200	19F and 1H magnetic resonance strategies for metabolic studies on fluorinated xenobiotics: application to flurbiprofen [2-(2-fluoro-4-biphenylyl)propionic acid].	Strategies for the use of 1H and 19F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy as an aid to the study of the metabolic fate of fluorinated drugs are discussed with reference to the application of these methods to flurbiprofen metabolism in man. 1H and 19F NMR analysis of untreated urine enabled the detection of two major and eight minor metabolites of the drug. The two major metabolites were identified using a combination of NMR spectroscopy, solid-phase extraction chromatography with 19F and 1H NMR detection and chemical hydrolysis to a flurbiprofen glucuronide and the glucuronide of the 4-hydroxy metabolite. 1H-19F 2D shift correlated spectroscopy and spin-echo difference experiments are discussed in relation to their use in the structural identification of drug metabolites.
21740694	The trazodone metabolite meta-chlorophenylpiperazine can cause false-positive urine amphetamine immunoassay results.	Amphetamines and methamphetamines are part of an important class of drugs included in most urine drugs of abuse screening panels, and a common assay to detect these drugs is the Amphetamines II immunoassay (Roche Diagnostics). To demonstrate that meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP), a trazodone metabolite, cross-reacts in the Amphetamines II assay, we tested reference standards of m-CPP at various concentrations (200 to 20,000 g/L). We also tested real patient urine samples containing m-CPP (detected and quantified by HPLC) with no detectable amphetamine, methamphetamine, or MDMA (demonstrated by GC MS). In both the m-CPP standards and the patient urine samples, we found a strong association between m-CPP concentration and Amphetamines II immunoreactivity (r = 0.990 for the urine samples). Further, we found that patients taking trazodone can produce urine with sufficient m-CPP to result in false-positive Amphetamines II results. At our institution, false-positive amphetamine results occur not infrequently in patients taking trazodone with at least 8 trazodone-associated false-positive results during a single 26-day period. Laboratories should remain cognizant of this interference when interpreting results of this assay.
15809878	Phase I clinical and pharmacokinetic trial of docetaxel and irinotecan administered on a weekly schedule.	Docetaxel and irinotecan are synergistic agents with a broad spectrum of activity but overlapping myelosuppression. The study was designed to maintain dose intensity while limiting myelosuppression. The objectives of this study were to determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of docetaxel and irinotecan administered weekly for four consecutive weeks every 42 days, to describe toxicities of this regimen, and to perform a pharmacokinetic analysis to evaluate changes in drug disposition as a function of dose as well as repeated dosing. Adult patients with advanced solid tumors were treated with docetaxel followed by irinotecan. Doses of 30/50, 35/50, 35/66, 30/57, 30/65, 30/80 mg/m(2), respectively, were studied. Pharmacokinetics of docetaxel, irinotecan and SN-38 in plasma were determined on days 1 and 22 by a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay. A total of 35 patients were treated. The MTD was docetaxel 30 mg/m(2) plus irinotecan 65 mg/m(2). Diarrhea was the dose-limiting toxicity; myelosuppression and other non-hematological toxicities were uncommon and mild. There were no significant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters between day 1 and day 22 (n=20). Five objective responses (breast, stomach and unknown primary) were observed among 30 evaluable patients. In addition, eight patients achieved stable disease. The combination of weekly docetaxel and irinotecan is a well tolerated regimen and should be explored in phase II trials. This schedule maintains dose intensity and has limited myelosuppression.
2722999	Gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric assessment of the pharmacokinetics of amineptine and its main metabolite in volunteers with liver impairment.	A pharmacokinetic study of amineptine (Survector) and its C5 metabolite, resulting from a beta-oxidation of the heptanoic acid side-chain, was undertaken with ten human volunteers, who received a single 100-mg tablet of amineptine orally. They were affected with liver impairment in order to determine if this situation would alter greatly the pharmacokinetic parameters. The internal standard was the octanoic acid homologue. Analyses were carried out by gas chromatography (GC) and GC-mass spectrometry using TMS ester derivatives. Plasma samples were extracted using a C18 reversed-phase cartridge at pH 4.0. Mass fragmentographic measurements on the plasma samples were performed on the m/z ions (M + H)+ and (base peak)+ using ammonia chemical ionization. The global evaluation of precision was good and the coherence between the two modes of measurements, (base peak)+ and (M + H)+ ions, gave a regression factor r close to unity. For amineptine the total body clearance and mean residence time were accurate and precise with eight volunteers, but only four volunteers showed such coherent data for the slope of the elimination curve, beta, and half-life. However, the beta value, half-life and mean residence time of the C5 metabolite were accurate and precise with seven, eight and ten volunteers, respectively. It is concluded that the drug was still detoxified at normal levels.
8660694	Effects of freezing, thawing, and storing human liver microsomes on cytochrome P450 activity.	The stability of cytochrome P450 enzymes, cytochrome b5, and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase was examined in (A) human liver samples frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 degrees C, (B) human liver microsomes suspended in 250 mM sucrose and stored at -80 degrees C, and (C) human liver microsomes subjected to as many as 10 cycles of thawing and freezing. In study A, microsomes from five human livers were prepared from fresh (unfrozen) tissue and from tissue that was stored frozen at -80 degrees C for 1, 2, 4, or 6 months. The apparent concentration of cytochromes P450 and b5 and the activity of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase decreased 20-40% as a result of freezing the liver, regardless of whether the liver was stored for 1 or 6 months. Similar decreases were observed in the activities of cytochrome P450 enzymes belonging to several gene families, namely CYP1A2 (7-ethoxyresorufin O-dealkylation and caffeine N3-demethylation), CYP2A6 (coumarin 7-hydroxylation), CYP2C9 (tolbutamide methylhydroxylation), CYP2C19 (S-mephenytoin 4'- hydroxylation), CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan O-de-methylation), CYP2E1 (chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation), CYP3A4solidus5 (testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation), and CYP4A9solidus11 (lauric acid 12-hydroxylation). Freezing human liver did not convert cytochrome P450 to its inactive form, cytochrome P420, but it increased the contamination of liver microsomes with hemoglobin or other heme-containing proteins, which resulted in a uniform decrease in the specific activity of cytochromes P450 and b5 and in the specific activity of all P450 enzymes. In study B, the concentration of cytochromes P450 and b5, the activity of NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, and the activity of individual cytochrome P450 enzymes were determined in 10 samples of human liver microsomes stored at -80 degrees C for approximately 0, 1, or 2 years. The sample-to-sample variation in the concentration and activity of cytochrome P450, cytochrome b5, and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase was nominally affected by long-term storage of human liver microsomes at -80 degrees C, indicating there was no differential loss of cytochrome P450 activity, cytochrome b5 concentration, or NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity. In study C, microsomes from a pool of human livers were subjected to 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, or 10 cycles of freezing at -80 degrees C followed by thawing at room temperature. Freezing/thawing liver microsomes for up to 10 cycles did not convert cytochrome P450 to P420, nor did it cause significant loss of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5, or CYP4A9/11 activity. Overall, these results suggest that our current methods for storing and processing human liver are well suited to preserving microsomal P450 enzyme activity.
18952044	Esterification of xanthophylls by human intestinal Caco-2 cells.	We recently found that peridinin, which is uniquely present in dinoflagellates, reduced cell viability by inducing apoptosis in human colon cancer cells. Peridinin is also found in edible clams and oysters because the major food sources of those shellfish are phytoplanktons such as dinoflagellates. Little is known, however, about the fate of dietary peridinin and its biological activities in mammals. The aim of the present study was to investigate the enzymatic esterification of xanthophylls, especially peridinin which is uniquely present in dinoflagellates, using differentiated cultures of Caco-2 human intestinal cells. We found that peridinin is converted to peridininol and its fatty acid esters in differentiated Caco-2 cells treated with 5mumol/L peridinin solubilized with mixed micelles. The cell homogenate was also able to deacetylate peridinin and to esterify peridininol. Other xanthophylls, such as fucoxanthin, astaxanthin and zeaxanthin, were also esterified, but at relatively lower rates than peridinin. In this study, we found the enzymatic esterification of xanthophylls in mammalian intestinal cells for the first time. Our results suggest that the esterification of xanthophylls in intestinal cells is dependent on their polarity.
23089607	High-performance liquid chromatography method using ultraviolet detection for the quantification of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole in psychiatric patients.	Aripiprazole (ARI) is an antipsychotic drug that is metabolized to dehydroaripiprazole (DARI) by CYP2D6. Because of the large interindividual variability in ARI and DARI plasma concentrations, therapeutic drug monitoring may be of use in psychiatric patients during treatment with ARI. The aim of the present study was to develop a simple and reliable method for the quantitative determination of ARI and DARI in plasma using liquid-liquid extraction and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet (UV) detection. The method was tested in psychiatric patients during regular treatment with ARI. Separation was by the liquid-liquid method, and UV detection at 254 nm. Linear responses for ARI and DARI were obtained between 2 and 1000 ng/mL, and precision assays were lower than 10.4 for both analytes. Lower limit of quantification and detection were 1 and 0.38 ng/mL for ARI and 0.78 and 0.44 ng/mL for DARI, respectively. The method was successfully applied to plasma samples drawn from 22 patients with concentrations ranging between 2 and 189 ng/mL for ARI and between 11 and 359 ng/mL for DARI. The chromatographic method developed has been demonstrated to be sensitive and reliable for the measurement of ARI and DARI simultaneously in human plasma, and the present method represents an alternative procedure to evaluate plasma concentration in patients during treatment with ARI.
7900162	Species differences in testicular and hepatic biotransformation of 2-methoxyethanol.	Biotransformation of 2-methoxyethanol (2-ME) by alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases is an established factor in the toxicity of this useful solvent. Little is known about potential capacity for 2-ME biotransformation by testis or other target tissues. We detected appreciable capacity for 2-ME biotransformation by alcohol dehydrogenase in testes from Sprague-Dawley rats. However, kinetic analysis showed a 6-fold lower affinity for 2-ME by alcohol dehydrogenase of testis compared to liver. 2-ME biotransformation was also detected in testes from Wistar rats and one strain of mice but not in testes from hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs, cats or humans. Testes from all these species readily converted the aldehyde metabolite of 2-ME to 2-methoxyacetic acid. Hepatic capacities for 2-ME biotransformation by alcohol dehydrogenase varied from 22 to 2.5 mumol/mg prot/min with a species rank order of: hamsters >> rats = mice > guinea pigs = rabbits. There was no consistent concordance between activities for 2-ME versus ethanol, the prototype substrate for alcohol dehydrogenase, which could reflect substrate preferences of different isozymes. Species differences between rats and hamsters were also found for testicular and hepatic biotransformation of the glycol ethers, 2-ethoxyethanol and 2-butoxyethanol. Although species differences in capacity for 2-ME biotransformation were found, the observations do not provide an explanation for reported species and strain differences in susceptibility to 2-ME toxicity.
20466871	Effect of steady-state enoxacin on single-dose pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide.	Roflumilast is an oral phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 to its primary metabolite, roflumilast N-oxide, through which >90% total PDE4 inhibitory activity (tPDE4i) is mediated. Fluoroquinolones, of which enoxacin is the most potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, are used to treat COPD exacerbations. This phase I, open, nonrandomized, fixed-sequence, 2-period study evaluated the effects of steady-state enoxacin on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide. Twenty healthy participants received roflumilast, 500 g once daily, on days 1 and 12, and enoxacin, 400 mg twice daily, on days 7 to 18. Pharmacokinetic profiles were obtained for days 1 to 6 and 12 to 19. The safety and tolerability of all treatments were also assessed. In 19 evaluable participants, coadministration led to 56% higher mean systemic exposure, 20% higher mean peak concentrations, and 36% lower mean apparent oral clearance compared with roflumilast alone. For roflumilast N-oxide, 23% higher mean systemic exposure and 14% lower mean peak concentrations were seen after coadministration. Roflumilast was well tolerated both alone and in combination with enoxacin. A weak interaction was shown between roflumilast and enoxacin, as mean tPDE4i increased by 25%, but is unlikely to have clinical relevance.
12848296	Effect of the delta6-desaturase inhibitor SC-26196 on PUFA metabolism in human cells.	The objective of this study was to determine the effect of 2,2-diphenyl-5-(4-[[(1 E)-pyridin-3-yl-methylidene]amino]piperazin-1-yl)pentanenitrile (SC-26196), a delta6-desaturase inhibitor, on PUFA metabolism in human cells. SC-26196 inhibited the desaturation of 2 microM [1-14C] 18:2n-6 by 87-95% in cultured human skin fibroblasts, coronary artery smooth muscle cells, and astrocytes. By contrast, SC-26196 did not affect the conversion of [1-14C]20:3n-6 to 20:4 in the fibroblasts, demonstrating that it is selective for delta6-desaturase. The IC50 values for inhibition of the desaturation of 2 microM [1-14C] 18:3n-3 and [3-14C]24:5n-3 in the fibroblasts, 0.2-0.4 microM, were similar to those for the inhibition of [1-14C 18:2n-6 desaturation, and the rates of recovery of [1-14C]18:2n-6 and [3-14C]24:5n-3 desaturation after removal of SC-26196 from the culture medium also were similar. SC-26196 reduced the conversion of [3-14C]22:5n-3 and [3-14C]24:5n-3 to DHA by 75 and 84%, respectively, but it had no effect on the retroconversion of [3-14C]24:6n-3 to DHA. These results demonstrate that SC-26196 effectively inhibits the desaturation of 18- and 24-carbon PUFA and, therefore, decreases the synthesis of arachidonic acid, EPA, and DHA in human cells. Furthermore, they provide additional evidence that the conversion of 22:5n-3 to DHA involves delta6-desaturation.
12487728	Characterization of testosterone metabolism and 7-hydroxycoumarin conjugation by rat and human liver slices after storage in liquid nitrogen for 1 h up to 6 months.	1. Slices of human and rat liver were cryopreserved in 18% dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) and subsequently stored in liquid nitrogen for periods up to as long as 6 months. After thawing, the metabolism of testosterone to hydroxylated products and conjugation of 7-hydroxycoumarin were investigated. 2. Rat liver slices stored in liquid nitrogen for 6 months exhibited rates of formation of 7alpha-, 6beta- 16alpha- and 2alpha-hydroxytestosterone, and of androstenedione that did not differ significantly from those observed with fresh slices. 3. No formation of 2alpha-hydroxytestosterone was detected with slices of human liver. However, in contrast with the rat, human slices produced 2beta-hydroxytestosterone. The rates of formation of 7alpha-, 6beta-, 16alpha- and 2beta-hydroxytestosterone and of androstenedione by human liver slices after 6 months of storage in liquid nitrogen were 82, 71, 236, 66 and 92%, respectively, of the corresponding rates by fresh slices. 4. The rates of sulphation and glucuronidation of 7-hydroxycoumarin by slices from rat liver were 97 and 119%, respectively, of the corresponding fresh values after 6 months of storage in liquid nitrogen. 5. 7-Hydroxycoumarin glucuronidation by human liver slices was 53% of the corresponding fresh values after 6 months of storage. However, human slices showed little or no capacity to conjugate 7-hydroxycoumarin with sulphate. 6. It was demonstrated that slices of both human and rat liver can be cryopreserved and stored in liquid nitrogen for at least 6 months without major changes in their rates of metabolism of testosterone to its hydroxylated products and of 7-hydroxycoumarin conjugation. These findings further emphasize that cryopreservation of liver slices can be an effective tool in the use of biological material of limited availability.
19762294	Enrichment and properties of urinary pre-S-phenylmercapturic acid (pre-SPMA).	In benzene metabolism, pre-S-phenylmercapturic acid (pre-SPMA) is the precursor to S-phenylmercapturic acid (SPMA). Urinary pre-SPMA/SPMA ratios are variable. For the determination of urinary SPMA as a biomarker of exposure to benzene it is essential to completely convert pre-SPMA to SPMA. We developed a procedure for the enrichment and determination of urinary pre-SPMA by LC-MS/MS which allowed us to trace the conversion of pre-SPMA to SPMA. Complete conversion was found upon treatment of urine with HCl (37%) at pH 1.1. Previously reported treatment of urine with concentrated H(2)SO(4) was found to yield SPMA levels higher than after HCl treatment. The origin of that extra SPMA amount is unknown. In conclusion, our findings suggest that pre-treatment of urine with HCl to adjust the pH to 0.5-1 is essential for complete conversion of pre-SPMA to SPMA and should be applied prior to analysis of SPMA in urine.
9041677	Metabolism of amitriptyline with CYP2D6 expressed in a human cell line.	1. Expressed human cytochrome P450 enzyme CPY2D6 was used to metabolize amitriptyline (AMI). It was established that CYP2D6 not only catalyzed ring 10-hydroxylation of AMI, but also mediated its N-demethylation to nortriptyline (NT), as well as the formation of 10-hydroxy-NT from NT. When the metabolism of AMI by CYP2D6 was repeated in the presence of quinidine, none of the metabolites, 10-hydroxy-AMI, NT and 10-hydroxy-NT, was formed. 2. Biochemical parameters of NT formation from AMI were determined, yielding Km = 47.48 +/- 1.32 microM; Vmax = 3.95 +/- 0.11 nmol/h/mg protein. The same parameters were calculated for the formation of 10-hydroxy-AMI (E + Z-isomers) from AMI, yielding Km = 10.70 +/- 0.20 microM; Vmax = 8.99 +/- 0.47 nmol/h/mg protein. 3. The formation of 10-hydroxy-NT from AMI proceeded primarily via NT and to a much lesser extent via 10-hydroxy-AMI. 4. Quantitative analyses of AMI and its metabolites were difficult to reproduce when the metabolites were analysed underivatized. Two derivatization procedures, acetylation and trifluoroacetylation, were employed to improve assay reproducibility.
11805197	Amodiaquine clearance and its metabolism to N-desethylamodiaquine is mediated by CYP2C8: a new high affinity and turnover enzyme-specific probe substrate.	Amodiaquine (AQ) metabolism to N-desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ) is the principal route of disposition in humans. Using human liver microsomes and two sets of recombinant human cytochrome P450 isoforms (from lymphoblastoids and yeast) we performed studies to identify the CYP isoform(s) involved in the metabolism of AQ. CYP2C8 was the main hepatic isoform that cleared AQ and catalyzed the formation of DEAQ. The extrahepatic P450s, 1A1 and 1B1, also cleared AQ and catalyzed the formation of an unknown metabolite M2. The K(m) and V(max) values for AQ N-desethylation were 1.2 microM and 2.6 pmol/min/pmol of CYP2C8 for recombinant CYP2C8, and 2.4 microM and 1462 pmol/min/mg of protein for human liver microsomes (HLMs), respectively. Relative contribution of CYP2C8 in the formation of DEAQ was estimated at 100% using the relative activity factor method. Correlation analyses between AQ metabolism and the activities of eight hepatic P450s were made on 10 different HLM samples. Both the formation of DEAQ and the clearance of AQ showed excellent correlations (r(2) = 0.98 and 0.95) with 6alpha-hydroxylation of paclitaxel, a marker substrate for CYP2C8. The inhibition of DEAQ formation by quercetin was competitive with K(i) values of 1.96 for CYP2C8 and 1.56 microM for HLMs. Docking of AQ into the active site homology models of the CYP2C isoforms showed favorable interactions with CYP2C8, which supported the likelihood of an N-desethylation reaction. These data show that CYP2C8 is the main hepatic isoform responsible for the metabolism of AQ. The specificity, high affinity, and high turnover make AQ desethylation an excellent marker reaction for CYP2C8 activity.
12485949	Mouse liver and kidney carboxylesterase (M-LK) rapidly hydrolyzes antitumor prodrug irinotecan and the N-terminal three quarter sequence determines substrate selectivity.	Antitumor prodrug irinotecan is used for a variety of malignancies such as colorectal cancer. It is hydrolyzed to the metabolite, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), which exerts its antineoplastic effect. Several human and rodent carboxylesterases are shown to hydrolyze irinotecan, but the overall activity varies from enzyme to enzyme. This report describes a novel mouse liver and kidney carboxylesterase (M-LK) that is highly active toward this prodrug. Northern analyses demonstrated that M-LK was abundantly expressed in the liver and kidney and slightly in the intestine and lung. Lysates from M-LK transfected cells exhibited a markedly higher activity on irinotecan hydrolysis than lysates from the cells transfected with mouse triacylglycerol hydrolase (TGH) (6.9 versus 1.3 pmol/mg/min). Based on the immunostaining intensity with purified rat hydrolase A, M-LK had a specific activity of 173 pmol/mg/min, which ranked it as one of the most efficient esterases known to hydrolyze irinotecan. A chimeric carboxylesterase and its wild-type enzyme (e.g., M-LKn and M-LK), sharing three quarters of the entire sequence from the N-terminus, exhibited the same substrate preference toward irinotecan and two other substrates, suggesting that the N-terminal sequence determines substrate selectivity. M-LK transfected cells manifested more severe cytotoxicity than TGH transfected cells upon being exposed to irinotecan. Topoisomerase I inhibitors such as irinotecan represent a promising class of anticancer drugs. Identification of M-LK as an efficient carboxylesterase to activate irinotecan provides additional sequence information to locate residues involved in irinotecan hydrolysis and thus facilitates the design of new analogs.
17537869	Metabolism, excretion, and pharmacokinetics of [14C]tigecycline, a first-in-class glycylcycline antibiotic, after intravenous infusion to healthy male subjects.	Tigecycline, a novel, first-in-class glycylcycline antibiotic, has been approved for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated skin and skin structure infections. The pharmacokinetics, metabolism, and excretion of [(14)C]tigecycline were examined in healthy male volunteers. Tigecycline has been shown to bind to bone; thus, to minimize the amount of radioactivity binding to bone and to maximize the recovery of radioactivity, tigecycline was administered intravenously (30-min infusion) as a single 100-mg dose, followed by six 50-mg doses, every 12 h, with the last dose being [(14)C]tigecycline (50 microCi). After the final dose, the pharmacokinetics of tigecycline in serum showed a long half-life (55.8 h) and a large volume of distribution (21.0 l/kg), whereas radioactivity in serum had a shorter half-life (6.9 h) and a smaller volume of distribution (3.3 l/kg). The major route of elimination was feces, containing 59% of the radioactive dose, whereas urine contained 32%. Unchanged tigecycline was the predominant drug-related compound in serum, urine, and feces. The major metabolic pathways identified were glucuronidation of tigecycline and amide hydrolysis followed by N-acetylation to form N-acetyl-9-aminominocycline. The glucuronide metabolites accounted for 5 to 20% of serum radioactivity, and approximately 9% of the dose was excreted as glucuronide conjugates within 48 h. Concentrations of N-acetyl-9-aminominocycline were approximately 6.5% and 11% of the tigecycline concentrations in serum and urine, respectively. Excretion of unchanged tigecycline into feces was the primary route of elimination, and the secondary elimination pathways were renal excretion of unchanged drug and metabolism to glucuronide conjugates and N-acetyl-9-aminominocycline.
17446266	In vitro metabolic characterization, phenotyping, and kinetic studies of 9cUAB30, a retinoid X receptor-specific retinoid.	The present study was conducted to compare the in vitro phase I and phase II metabolic profiles of (2E,4E,6Z,8E)-8-(3',4'-dihydro-1'(2'H)-naphthalen-1'-ylidene)-3,7-dimethyl-2,4,6-octatrienoic acid (9cUAB30) in human, rat, and dog microsomes and to characterize and identify the associated metabolic kinetics and specific isozymes from human liver microsomes (HLM) responsible for metabolism, respectively. Data from these experiments revealed that nine (M1-M9) phase I metabolites along with a single glucuronide conjugate were observed across the species investigated. With the exception of glucuronidation, no evidence of metabolism was detected for phase II enzymes (data not shown). Significant differences between species with regard to metabolic profile, stability, and gender were noted. For the eight phase I metabolites detected in HLM, the specific isozymes responsible for the biotransformations were CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, with minor contributions from CYP1A2 and CYP2B6. For the glucuronide conjugate, UGT1A9 was the major catalyzing enzyme, with a minor contribution from UGT1A3. Kinetic analysis of eight of the detected metabolites indicated that four seemed to follow classical hyperbolic kinetics, whereas the remaining four showed evidence of either autoactivation or substrate inhibition.
478062	Percutaneous absorption of chlorquinaldol (Sterosan).	The percutaneous absorption of chlorquinaldol from three different preparations for skin treatment (Sterosan-hydrocortison ointment and cream, Sterosan ointment) was evaluated by measuring the cumulative urinary excretion of chlorquinaldol and was compared to that found after an equivalent oral dose. In the blood the concentrations were below the detection limit of the analytical procedure, i.e., smaller than 0.02 microgram/ml. The study was carried out in 3 healthy volunteers using a four-period change-over design. The topical preparations were applied under occlusive dressings. Following epicutaneous application of the three topicals in quantities containing 30 mg chlorquinaldol each, the mean urinary excretion of the drug amounted to 11.1 +/- 6.6, 19.5 +/- 3.5 and 13.0 +/- 2.5% of the applied dose. When the same dose of chlorquinaldol was administered orally, 67.6 +/- 9.5% of the dose was excreted in the urine. Taking the urinary elimination as the minimal amount of drug absorbed, the extent of percutaneous absorption from the three dermatological preparations varied between 4.2 and 23.5% of the applied dose. There was no difference in the pattern of urinary excretion products among the three topicals and the oral formulation. The bulk of chlorquinaldol (mean 98.0 +/- 0.1%) was excreted as sulfate (mean 1.3 +/- 0.3%) or unchanged drug (mean 0.8 +/- 0.1%).
17998295	In vitro metabolic activation of lumiracoxib in rat and human liver preparations.	Recent clinical reports have suggested that the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, lumiracoxib (Prexige), may cause a rare but serious hepatotoxicity in patients. In view of the close structural resemblance between lumiracoxib and diclofenac, a widely used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug whose use also has been associated with rare cases of liver injury, it is possible that the toxicity of the two agents may share a common mechanism. Because it is believed that chemically reactive metabolites may play a role as mediators of diclofenac-mediated hepatotoxicity, the present in vitro study was carried out to test the hypothesis that lumiracoxib also undergoes metabolic activation when incubated with liver microsomal preparations and hepatocytes from rats and humans. By means of liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry techniques, two previously unknown N-acetylcysteine (NAC) conjugates were identified, namely, 3'-NAC-4'-hydroxy lumiracoxib (M1) and 4'-hydroxy-6'-NAC-desfluoro lumiracoxib (M2), the structures of which reveal the intermediacy of an electrophilic quinone imine species. Based on the results of studies with immunoinhibitory antibodies, it was demonstrated that the formation of M1 and M2 in human liver microsomes was catalyzed by cytochrome P450 (P450) 2C9. These findings demonstrate that lumiracoxib is subject to P450-mediated bioactivation in both rat and human liver preparations, leading to the formation of a reactive intermediate analogous to species generated during the metabolism of diclofenac.
12191892	Construction of a database of benzene biological monitoring.	Biological monitoring of occupational exposure to benzene has been conducted in the petroleum, steel and chemical industries. The urinary benzene-specific biomarker, S-phenylmercapturic acid (PMA), was quantified in post-shift samples using a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and expressed as a function of urinary creatinine concentration. The assay, based on a PMA-specific antiserum, is sufficiently sensitive to measure PMA levels in non-occupationally exposed control subjects. The assay delivers batch results in a timely manner which may be as short as 3 h. Samples were analysed from groups of workers engaged in coke oven combustion processes, petroleum refining and decontamination of a benzene land spill. The construction of a database of results provides an index of benzene uptake as a consequence of the respective work processes and tasks and readily enables benchmarking exercises aimed at comparing degrees of exposure across segments of industry.
18474676	UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6 is the major isozyme responsible for protocatechuic aldehyde glucuronidation in human liver microsomes.	Glucuronidation is an important pathway in the metabolism of protocatechuic aldehyde (3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, PAL). However, the metabolites and primary UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isozymes responsible for PAL glucuronidation remain to be determined in human. Here, we characterized PAL glucuronidation by human liver microsomes (HLMs), human intestine microsomes (HIMs), and 12 recombinant UGT (rUGT) isozymes to identify what kinds of metabolites are present and which human UGT isozymes are involved. Two metabolites (M-1 and M-2) were detected in reactions catalyzed by HLMs, HIMs, rUGT1A6, and rUGT1A9 and were identified as monoglucuronides by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A kinetic study showed that PAL glucuronidation by rUGT1A6, rUGT1A9, HIMs, and HLMs followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The K(m) values of HLMs, HIMs, rUGT1A6, and rUGT1A9 for PAL glucuronidation were as follows: 432.7 +/- 24.5, 626.9 +/- 49.2, 367.5 +/- 25.1, and 379.9 +/- 42.5 microM for M-1 and 336.7 +/- 15.3, 494.3 +/- 48.7, 211.4 +/- 13.4, and 238.5 +/- 26.2 microM for M-2, respectively. The PAL glucuronidation activity was significantly correlated with UGT1A6 activity rather than with UGT1A9 activity from 15 individual HLMs. A chemical inhibition study showed that the IC(50) for phenylbutazone inhibition of PAL glucuronidation was similar in HLMs (61.9 +/- 7.9 microM) compared with rUGT1A6 (45.3 +/- 7.7 microM). In contrast, androsterone inhibited rUGT1A9-catalyzed and HLM-catalyzed PAL glucuronidation with IC(50) values of 27.1 +/- 3.8 and > 500 microM, respectively. In combination, we identified UGT1A6 as the major isozyme responsible for PAL glucuronidation in HLMs.
21381057	Toxicokinetics of captan and folpet biomarkers in orally exposed volunteers.	The time courses of key biomarkers of exposure to captan and folpet was assessed in accessible biological matrices of orally exposed volunteers. Ten volunteers ingested 1 mg kg(-1) body weight of captan or folpet. Blood samples were withdrawn at fixed time periods over the 72 h following ingestion and complete urine voids were collected over 96 h post-dosing. The tetrahydrophthalimide (THPI) metabolite of captan along with the phthalimide (PI) and phthalic acid metabolites of folpet were then quantified in these samples. Plasma levels of THPI and PI increased progressively after ingestion, reaching peak values ~10 and 6 h post-dosing, respectively; subsequent elimination phase appeared monophasic with a mean elimination half-life (t() ) of 15.7 and 31.5 h, respectively. In urine, elimination rate time courses of PI and phthalic acid evolved in parallel, with respective t() of 27.3 and 27.6 h; relatively faster elimination was found for THPI, with mean t() of 11.7 h. However, phthalic acid was present in urine in 1000-fold higher amounts than PI. In the 96 h period post-treatment, on average 25% of folpet dose was excreted in urine as phthalic acid as compared with only 0.02% as PI. The corresponding value for THPI was 3.5%. Overall, THPI and PI appear as interesting biomarkers of recent exposure, with relatively short half-lives; their sensitivity to assess exposure in field studies should be further verified. Although not a metabolite specific to folpet, the concomitant use of phthalic acid as a major biomarker of exposure to folpet should also be considered.
8527689	Disposition and bioavailability of the beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist talinolol in man.	In an open randomized crossover study, the pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of the selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist talinolol (Cordanum--Arzneimittelwerk Dresden GmbH, Germany) were investigated in twelve healthy volunteers (five female, seven male; three poor and nine extensive metabolizers of the debrisoquine hydroxylation phenotype) after intravenous infusion (30 mg) and oral administration (50 mg), respectively. Concentrations of talinolol and its metabolites were measured in serum and urine by HPLC or GC-MS. At the end of infusion a peak serum concentration (Cmax) of 631 +/- 95 ng mL-1 (mean +/- SD) was observed. The area under the serum concentration-time curve from zero to infinity (AUC0-infinity) was 1433 +/- 153 ng h mL-1. The following parameters were estimated: terminal elimination half life (t 1/2), 10.6 +/- 3.3 h; mean residence time, 11.6 +/- 3.1 h; volume of distribution, 3.3 +/- 0.5 L kg-1; and total body clearance, 4.9 +/- 0.6 mL min-1 kg-1. Within 36 h 52.8 +/- 10.6% of the administered dose was recovered as unchanged talinolol and 0.33 +/- 0.18% as hydroxylated talinolol metabolites in urine. After oral administration a Cmax of 168 +/- 67 ng mL-1 was reached after 3.2 +/- 0.8 h. The AUC0-infinity was 1321 +/- 382 ng h mL-1. The t 1/2 was 11.9 +/- 2.4 h. 28.1 +/- 6.8% of the dose or 55.0 +/- 11.0% of the bioavailable talinolol was eliminated as unchanged talinolol and 0.26 +/- 0.17% of the dose as hydroxylated metabolites by kidney. The absolute bioavailability of talinolol was 55 +/- 15% (95% confidence interval, 36-69%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
17306943	A pharmacokinetic study of ethyl glucuronide in blood and urine: applications to forensic toxicology.	This pharmacokinetic study investigated the kinetics of ethanol and its metabolite ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in blood and urine during the whole time course of absorption and elimination. There are few previous studies on the kinetics of EtG in blood, and we wanted to evaluate whether such knowledge could yield valuable information regarding the time of ethanol ingestion in forensic cases, such as, for instance, drunk driving. Ten male volunteers consumed ethanol at a fixed dose of 0.5 g/kg body weight in a fasted state. Blood samples were collected for 14 h and urine samples were collected for 45-50 h after the start of drinking. EtG reached its maximum concentration (C(max)) in blood after a median of 4 h (range 3.5-5), a median of 3 h (range 2-4.5) after C(max) for ethanol. The ethanol-to-EtG ratios in blood (ethanol in g/L, EtG in mg/L) were >1 only for the first median 3.5 h (range 2.5-3.5) after drinking. EtG elimination occurred with a median half-life of 2.2 h (range 1.7-3.1 h), and the renal clearance was 8.32 L/h (median, range 5.25-20.86). The concentrations of EtG were always much higher in urine than in blood. The total amount of EtG excreted in the urine was median 30 mg (range 21.5-39.7), representing 0.017% (median, range 0.013-0.022) of the ethanol given, on a molar basis. The information from the present study may be a valuable supplement to determine the time of ethanol ingestion. For this purpose, two subsequent increasing EtG values and a high ethanol-to-EtG ratio in blood would support information of recent drinking.
2773512	Use of antisera in the isolation of human specific conjugates of haloperidol.	1. Three conjugated metabolites of haloperidol were isolated from urine of patients on haloperidol and purified by h.p.l.c. with immunological detection, using three types of anti-haloperidol antisera. 2. Structures of the metabolites were: a sulphate conjugate of the 2-hydroxylated 4-fluorophenyl ring of reduced haloperidol (MH-1), a glucuronide conjugate at the same position as MH-1 (MH-2), and a glucuronide conjugate of the hydroxy group of haloperidol (MH-3). 3. MH-3 was the main urinary metabolite in volunteers receiving haloperidol, who excreted 18% of the dose in the 24 h urine as MH-3, while other conjugates were less than 1%. MH-3 could not be hydrolysed with beta-glucuronidase, due to steric hindrance. 4. Immunological detection of conjugated metabolites is very useful in metabolic studies in humans because of its sensitivity and specificity.
22864874	A phase 1 study of vinflunine in combination with trastuzumab for the treatment for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.	To determine the recommended dose (RD) of vinflunine in combination with trastuzumab in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer (MBC) and to investigate potential pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions. In the first part of the study, two dose levels of vinflunine given every 3 weeks were explored (280 and 320 mg/m(2)) combined with trastuzumab (4 mg/kg loading dose and 2 mg/kg weekly). For each level of dose, six patients were enrolled to determine the RD for phase 2 studies (RP2S). In the second part of the study, 18 additional patients at RP2S have been evaluated to confirm safety and investigate preliminary antitumor activity. The RD was 320 mg/m(2) according to the dose escalation plan. Eleven of 15 additional patients who received this dose experienced dose-limiting toxicities, leading to a reduction in the RD to 280 mg/m(2). When compared to prior trials when vinflunine was used as a single agent, neither vinflunine total blood clearance nor trastuzumab serum concentrations were modified when the drugs were combined. All patients were evaluable, and the overall response rate was 73.3 % (95 % CI 54.1-87.7). The median progression-free survival was 11.3 months (95 % CI 9.4-21.0). At the dose of 280 mg/m(2), grade 3-4 neutropenia were seen in 4 patients (44.4 %) without febrile neutropenia. Non-hematologic grade 4 toxicities were not reported while grade 3 peripheral sensory neuropathy concerned 2 patients (22.2 %). The RD of vinflunine in combination with the standard regimen of trastuzumab is 280 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks. No mutual PK drug-drug interaction was seen. This regimen appears to be active with a favorable safety profile. Its role in HER2-positive MBC treatment needs to be defined in prospective comparative clinical trials.
17296334	Determination of lidocaine and its two N-desethylated metabolites in dog and horse plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography combined with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	A sensitive method for the quantification of lidocaine and its metabolites, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and glycinexylidide (GX), in animal plasma using high-performance liquid chromatography combined with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry is described. The sample preparation includes a liquid-liquid extraction with methyl tert-butylmethyl ether after addition of 2M sodium hydroxide. Ethylmethylglycinexylidide (EMGX) is used as an internal standard. For chromatographic separation, an ODS Hypersil column was used. Isocratic elution was achieved with 0.01 M ammonium acetate and acetonitrile as mobile phases. Good linearity was observed in the range of 2.5-1000 ng ml(-1) for lidocaine in both dog and horse plasma. For MEGX, linear calibration curves were obtained in the range of 5-1000 ng ml(-1) and 20-1000 ng ml(-1) for dog and horse plasma, respectively. In dog and horse plasma good linearity was observed in the range of 200-1500 ng ml(-1) for GX. The limit of quantification (LOQ) in dog plasma for lidocaine, MEGX and GX was set at 2.5 ng ml(-1), 20 ng ml(-1) and 200 ng ml(-1), respectively. For horse plasma a limit of quantification of 2.5 ng ml(-1), 5 ng ml(-1) and 200 ng ml(-1) was achieved for lidocaine, MEGX and GX, respectively. In dog plasma, the limit of detection (LOD) was found to be 0.8 ng ml(-1), 2.3 ng ml(-1) and 55 ng ml(-1) for lidocaine, MEGX and GX, respectively. In horse plasma the LOD's found for lidocaine, MEGX and GX, were 1.1 ng ml(-1), 0.5 ng ml(-1) and 13 ng ml(-1), respectively. The method was shown to be of use in pharmacokinetic studies after application of a transdermal patch in dogs and after an intravenous infusion in horses.
14709627	Highly selective inhibition of human CYP3Aa in vitro by azamulin and evidence that inhibition is irreversible.	Azamulin [14-O-(5-(2-amino-1,3,4-triazolyl)thioacetyl)-dihydromutilin] is an azole derivative of the pleuromutilin class of antiinfectives. We tested the inhibition potency of azamulin toward 18 cytochromes P450 using human liver microsomes or microsomes from insect cells expressing single isoforms. In a competitive inhibition model, IC(50) values for CYP3A (0.03-0.24 microM) were at least 100-fold lower than all other non-CYP3A enzymes except CYP2J2 ( approximately 50-fold lower). The IC(50) value with heterologously expressed CYP3A4 was 15-fold and 13-fold less than those of CYP3A5 and CYP3A7, respectively. The reference inhibitor ketoconazole was less selective and exhibited potent inhibition (IC(50) values <10 microM) for CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP4F2, and CYP4F12. Inhibition of CYP3A by azamulin appeared sigmoidal and well behaved with the substrates 7-benzyloxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin, testosterone, and midazolam. Preincubation of 4.8 microM azamulin in the presence of NADPH for 10 min inhibited approximately 95% of testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity compared with preincubation in the absence of NADPH. Catalytic activities of CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 were unaffected by similar experiments. Incubation of azamulin with heterologously expressed CYP3A4 yielded a type I binding spectrum with a spectral dissociation constant of 3.5 microM, whereas no interaction was found with CYP2D6. Azamulin exhibited good chemical stability when stored in acetonitrile for up to 12 days. Aqueous solubility was found to be >300 microM. Azamulin represents an important new chemical tool for use in characterizing the contribution of CYP3A to the metabolism of xenobiotics.
1812984	Stereospecific gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric assay of the chiral labetalol metabolite 3-amino-1-phenylbutane.	We previously identified 3-amino-1-phenylbutane (APB) as an oxidative N-dealkylated, metabolite of the antihypertensive agent labetalol. Labetalol has two asymmetric centers and is used clinically as a mixture of the four possible stereoisomers; APB has one asymmetric center. We now report an enantiospecific gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric assay for APB in urine. After adding the internal standard 1-methyl-2-phenoxyethylamine and alkalinizing, the urine samples were extracted with ether. The extracts were derivatized with the optically active acid chloride prepared from (S)-alpha-methoxy-alpha-trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid. The derivatives were separated by capillary gas chromatography and detected by electron capture negative ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry with selected ion monitoring. The derivative of the R enantiomer eluted first, and the [M--32]- ions were monitored for both the drug and the internal standard. The method was linear in the 0.05-2.5 micrograms enantiomer-1 ml-1 range and had inter-assay and intra-assay coefficients of variation of less than 6%. The assay was used in the analysis of urine samples from a patient in labetalol therapy and no interference was found. Further studies are needed to elucidate the oxidative metabolism of labetalol and its stereochemical aspects.
2878596	Renal hemodynamics and pharmacokinetics of bevantolol in patients with impaired renal function.	The effects of bevantolol on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate and the drug's pharmacokinetics were studied for 7 days in 18 patients (mean age 50 years) with varying degrees of renal dysfunction. Patients were divided into 3 groups: group 1 had a creatinine clearance of 50 to 80 ml/min, group 2, 20 to 49 ml/min and group 3, less than 20 ml/min. After baseline inulin and paraaminohippuric acid clearance values were obtained, patients were given a single, 150-mg "priming" administration of bevantolol. The kinetics of the drug (including plasma drug levels, plasma half-life and plasma clearance) and its effects on renal function were observed for 24 hours. On days 4 to 6 of the study, patients received 150 mg of bevantolol twice daily, with only a single dose given on day 7. Bevantolol did not significantly affect either inulin or paraaminohippuric acid clearance in patients with differing degrees of renal function. In 50% of patients with a creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 50 ml/min, both the half-life and maximum trough serum levels were higher than the ranges seen in healthy subjects. However, neither value appears to be clinically relevant because bevantolol has a wide therapeutic range. Renal impairment did not change the percentages of the bevantolol dosage excreted unchanged or as conjugated drug in the urine, and no toxic or active drug metabolites accumulated in the blood. From these results, it appears that bevantolol may be used safely in short-term therapy of patients with renal impairment.
17137525	The effect of the use of mouthwash on ethylglucuronide concentrations in urine.	Two studies were performed to evaluate the effect of alcohol containing mouthwash on the appearance of ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in urine. In the first study, 9 volunteers were given a 4-oz bottle of mouthwash, which contained 12% ethanol. They gargled with all 4 oz. of the mouthwash at intervals over a 15-min period. All urine samples were collected over the next 24 h. Of 39 provided urine samples, there were 20 > 50 ng/mL, 12 > 100 ng/mL, 5 > 200 ng/mL, 3 > 250 ng/mL, and 1 > 300 ng/mL. The peak concentrations were all within 12 h after the exposure. In the second study, 11 participants gargled 3 times daily for 5 days. The first morning void was collected. Sixteen of the 55 submitted samples contained EtG concentrations of greater than 50 ng/mL. All of them were less than 120 ng/mL. These studies show that incidental exposure to mouthwash containing 12% ethanol, when gargling according to the manufacturer's instructions, can result in urinary EtG values greater than 50 ng/mL. All specimens were negative for ethanol. The limits of detection and quantitation for the EtG testing were 50 ng/mL.
18817801	Biotransformation of 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234yf).	2,3,3,3-Tetrafluoropropene (HFO-1234yf) is a non-ozone-depleting fluorocarbon replacement with a low global warming potential which has been developed as refrigerant. The biotransformation of HFO-1234yf was investigated after inhalation exposure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to air containing 2000, 10,000, or 50,000 ppm HFO-1234yf for 6 h and male B6C3F1 mice were exposed to 50,000 ppm HFO-1234yf for 3.5 h in a dynamic exposure chamber (n=5/concentration). After the end of the exposure, animals were individually housed in metabolic cages and urines were collected at 6 or 12-hour intervals for 48 h. For metabolite identification, urine samples were analyzed by (1)H-coupled and decoupled (19)F-NMR and by LC/MS-MS or GC/MS. Metabolites were identified by (19)F-NMR chemical shifts, signal multiplicity, (1)H-(19)F coupling constants and by comparison with synthetic reference compounds. In all urine samples, the predominant metabolites were two diastereomers of N-acetyl-S-(3,3,3-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-propyl)-l-cysteine. In (19)F-NMR, the signal intensity of these metabolites represented more than 85% (50,000 ppm) of total (19)F related signals in the urine samples. Trifluoroacetic acid, 3,3,3-trifluorolactic acid, 3,3,3-trifluoro-1-hydroxyacetone, 3,3,3-trifluoroacetone and 3,3,3-trifluoro-1,2-dihydroxypropane were present as minor metabolites. Quantification of N-acetyl-S-(3,3,3-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-propyl)-l-cysteine by LC/MS-MS showed that most of this metabolite (90%) was excreted within 18 h after the end of exposure (t(1/2) app. 6 h). In rats, the recovery of N-acetyl-S-(3,3,3-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-propyl)-l-cysteine excreted within 48 h in urine was determined as 0.30+/-0.03, 0.63+/-0.16, and 2.43+/-0.86 micromol at 2000, 10,000 and 50,000 ppm, respectively suggesting only a low extent (<<1% of dose received) of biotransformation of HFO-1234yf. In mice, the recovery of this metabolite was 1.774+/-0.4 mumol. Metabolites identified after in vitro incubations of HFO-1234yf in liver microsomes from rat, rabbit, and human support the metabolic pathways of HFO-1234yf revealed in vivo. The obtained results suggest that HFO-1234yf is subjected to a typical biotransformation reaction for haloolefins, likely by a cytochrome P450 2E1-catalyzed formation of 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoroepoxypropane at low rates, followed by glutathione conjugation or hydrolytic ring opening.
19443680	Lack of pharmacokinetic drug interactions following concomitant administration of telavancin with aztreonam or piperacillin/tazobactam in healthy participants.	This randomized crossover study in healthy participants assessed pharmacokinetic interactions between telavancin, aztreonam, and piperacillin/tazobactam. Part 1: 11 participants received telavancin 10 mg/kg, aztreonam 2 g, or a combination of telavancin 10 mg/kg+aztreonam 2 g intravenously on 3 separate days. Part 2: 12 participants received telavancin 10 mg/kg, piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5 g, or a combination of telavancin 10 mg/kg+piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5 g intravenously on 3 separate days. Blood and urine drug concentrations were measured up to 48 hours posttreatment. Drug interactions were assessed by equivalence analysis of noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameters, focusing on area under plasma concentration-time curves (AUC), log transformed; if the antilog of the 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for the mean log AUC difference was within equivalence bounds (0.70, 1.43), the effect of coadministration on the pharmacokinetics of the respective drug was deemed not clinically significant. Plasma concentration-time curves for all treatment pairs were nearly superimposable with comparable values for pharmacokinetic parameter estimates. In equivalence analyses, 90% CI for the mean difference in log AUC in each comparison fell within the predefined clinical equivalence limits and bioequivalence limits (0.80, 1.25). Administration of aztreonam or piperacillin/tazobactam with telavancin had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetic disposition of any of these drugs.
20130844	A fully validated high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the determination of ethyl glucuronide in hair for the proof of strict alcohol abstinence.	Hair analysis has become a powerful tool for the detection of chronic and past drug consumption. For several years, it has been possible to determine even the intake of ethanol in hair samples by detecting the ethanol metabolites ethyl glucuronide or fatty acid ethyl esters. Recently, new requirements were published for the use of EtG as an abstinence test (c(EtG) < 7 pg/mg) as well as for heavy-drinking detection (c(EtG) > 30 pg/mg). In order to perform abstinence tests, a sensitive LC-MS/MS procedure has been developed and fully validated according to the guidelines of forensic toxicology. The nine-point calibration curve showed linearity over the range of concentrations from 2-1,000 pg/mg. Detection and quantification limits were 1 and 4 pg/mg respectively. The intra- and inter-day precision and accuracy were always better than 20%. The validated procedure has successfully been applied to perform abstinence tests and to analyze hair samples from persons in withdrawal treatment. Concentrations between <LOQ and 400 pg/mg were determined. In some cases, interfering peaks complicated the quantification to some extent. First results using varied chromatographic conditions showed constituting results. However, modified chromatographic conditions help substantiate critical results, especially if the determined EtG concentration is close to a cut-off value.
15290687	Enantioselective renal excretion of albendazole metabolites in patients with neurocysticercosis.	The present study investigates the urinary excretion of the enantiomers of (+)- and (-)-albendazole sulfoxide (ASOX) and albendazole sulfone (ASON) in 12 patients with neurocysticercosis treated with albendazole for 8 days (7.5 mg/kg/12 h). Serial blood samples (0-12 h) and urine (three periods of 8 h) were collected after administration of the last dose of albendazole. Plasma and urine (+)-ASOX, (-)-ASOX, and ASON metabolites were determined by HPLC using a chiral phase column (Chiralpak AD) with fluorescence detection. The pharmacokinetic parameters (P < 0.05) for (+)-ASOX, (-)-ASOX, and ASON metabolites are reported as means (95% CI); amount excreted (Ae) = 3.19 (1.53-4.85) vs. 0.72 (0.41-1.04) vs. 0.08 (0.03-0.13) mg; plasma concentration-time area under the curve, AUC(0-24) = 3.56 (0.93-6.18) vs. 0.60 (0.12-1.08) vs. 0.38 (0.20-0.55) microg x h/ml, and renal clearance Cl(R) = 1.20 (0.66-1.73) vs. 2.72 (0.39-5.05) vs. 0.25 (0.13-0.37) l/h. Sulfone formation capacity, expressed as the Ae ratio ASON/ASOX + ASON, was 2.21 (1.43-2.99). These data point to enantioselectivity in the renal excretion of ASOX as a complementary mechanism to the metabolism responsible for the plasma accumulation of (+)-ASOX. The results also suggest that the metabolite ASON is partially eliminated as a reaction product of the subsequent metabolism.
17228866	Ester-based precursors to increase the bioavailability of quercetin.	Plant polyphenols exhibit a variety of potentially useful biochemical properties in vitro, but their evaluation and clinical exploitation in vivo is hampered by their limited bioavailability. Precursors exhibiting resistance to phase II metabolism during absorption are therefore desirable. We report here the synthesis as well as stability and solubility studies of several ester derivatives of quercetin (3,3',4',5,7-pentahydroxy flavone), most of which comprise an aminoacyl group. To model transepithelial absorption, we tested transport across supported tight monolayers of MDCK-1, MDCK-2, and Caco-2 cells. Quercetin itself was extensively conjugated by all three types of cells. A few of our precursors did not cross the monolayers, but others did, undergoing partial deacylation. No phase II conjugation was observed during transport of these compounds across MDCK or some Caco-2 clones. With other Caco-2 lines complete deacylation occurred, followed by metabolism of quercetin. Since elimination of residual acyl groups is expected to take place in vivo, ester derivatives of polyphenols may constitute a useful method to increase systemic aglycone concentrations.
20739639	Metabolism of vabicaserin in mice, rats, dogs, monkeys, and humans.	Vabicaserin is a potent 5-hydroxytryptamine(2C) agonist that is currently being developed for the treatment of the psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia. In this study, in vitro and in vivo metabolism of vabicaserin was evaluated in mice, rats, dogs, monkeys, and humans, and the structures of the metabolites were characterized by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy. Vabicaserin underwent three major metabolic pathways in vitro: NADPH-dependent hydroxylation, NADPH-independent imine formation, and carbamoyl glucuronidation. After a single oral dose, vabicaserin was extensively metabolized in animals and humans, and its metabolites were mainly excreted via the urine in mice and rats. Along with the metabolites observed in vitro, secondary metabolism via oxidation and conjugation of the primary metabolites generated from the above-mentioned three pathways yielded a number of additional metabolites in vivo. Carbamoyl glucuronidation was the major metabolic pathway in humans but a minor pathway in rats. Although carbamoyl glucuronidation was a major metabolic pathway in mice, dogs, and monkeys, oxidative metabolism was also extensive in these species. Hydroxylation occurred in all species, although different regional selectivity was apparent. The imine pathway also appeared to be common to several species, because vabicaserin imine was observed in humans and hydroxyl imine metabolites were observed in mice, rats, and dogs. A nitrone metabolite of vabicaserin was observed in dogs and humans but not in other species. In conclusion, the major metabolic pathways for vabicaserin in humans and nonclinical safety species include carbamoyl glucuronidation, hydroxylation, formation of an imine, and a nitrone.
19628729	Lack of pharmacokinetic interactions between transdermal rotigotine and oral levodopa/carbidopa.	This open-label phase I trial assessed potential pharmacokinetic interactions between oral levodopa/carbidopa and transdermal rotigotine treatment at steady state. Twenty-four participants with idiopathic restless legs syndrome (12 per group) received levodopa/carbidopa (100 mg/25 mg bid) and rotigotine (initial dose 2 mg/24 h for 3 days, followed by 4 mg/24 h) in a randomized sequence as monotherapy and in combination during hospitalization for 13 days. Primary pharmacokinetic parameters were AUC(ss) and C(max,ss) of levodopa, carbidopa, and rotigotine at steady state. Mean concentration-time profiles of the 3 agents were similar during monotherapy and combination treatment. The point estimate for the ratio of geometric means (combined vs monotherapy) for AUC(ss) and C(max,ss) for levodopa (0.98 and 1.04), carbidopa (1.03 and 1.06), and unconjugated rotigotine (1.02 and 0.98) was near unity. All 90% confidence intervals were within the acceptance range for bioequivalence (0.8, 1.25). The most frequently documented adverse events were application site reactions (itching and reddening at application site) and headache. Most adverse events were mild to moderate in intensity, but 2 were of severe intensity (headache and extrasystoles); no serious adverse events occurred. The data presented indicate that rotigotine and levodopa/carbidopa can be coadministered without pharmacokinetic interactions between the compounds.
21840662	Simultaneous determination of efavirenz, rifampicin and its metabolite desacetyl rifampicin levels in human plasma.	A simple and rapid isocratic, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay employing solid phase extraction (SPE) for the simultaneous determination of the anti HIV drug, efavirenz, the anti-tuberculosis drug, rifampicin and the desacetyl metabolite of rifampicin in plasma from HIV/tuberculosis infected patients has been developed. Using a Zorbax SB-Phenyl reverse-phase analytical column with UV detection, good separation and detection of the drugs was attained within a 10min run time. Intra- and inter-assay precision RSD values were found to be less than 15% at the concentrations examined (0.1-20g/mL). The LOQ was found to be 0.1g/mL for each agent and the assay was found to generate a linear response up to 20g/mL. This low cost assay can accurately detect efavirenz and rifampicin concentrations within a clinically relevant concentration range using standard chromatography equipment, making it particularly applicable to resource-limited settings.
14727919	Cytotoxic action of juglone and plumbagin: a mechanistic study using HaCaT keratinocytes.	Juglone (5-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone) and plumbagin (5-hydroxy-3-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone) are yellow pigments found in black walnut (Juglans regia). Herbal preparations derived from black walnut have been used as hair dyes and skin colorants in addition to being applied topically for the treatment of acne, inflammatory diseases, ringworm, and fungal, bacterial, or viral infections. We have studied the cytotoxicity of these quinones to HaCaT keratinocytes. Exposure to juglone or plumbagin (1-20 microM) resulted in a concentration-dependent decrease in cell viability. The cytotoxicity of these quinones is due to two different mechanisms, namely, redox cycling and reaction with glutathione (GSH). Redox cycling results in the generation of the corresponding semiquinone radicals, which were detected by electron paramagnetic resonance. Incubation of keratinocytes with the quinones generated hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and resulted in the oxidation of GSH to GSSG. Depletion of GSH by buthionine sulfoximine enhanced semiquinone radical production, increased H(2)O(2) generation, and produced greater cytotoxicity, suggesting that GSH plays an important protective role. Both quinones decreased the intracellular levels of GSH. However, plumbagin stoichiometrically converted GSH to GSSG, indicating that redox cycling is its main metabolic pathway. In contrast, much of the GSH lost during juglone exposure, especially at the higher concentrations (10 and 20 microM), did not appear as GSSG, suggesting that the cytotoxicity of this quinone may also involve nucleophilic addition to GSH. Our findings indicate that topical preparations containing juglone and plumbagin should be used with care as their use may damage the skin. However, it is probable that the antifungal, antiviral, and antibacterial properties of these quinones are the result of redox cycling.
8122294	Gas chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry measurement of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol, naltrexone, and their active metabolites in plasma.	The combination of gas chromatography and mass spectrometry (GC/MS) is generally recognized as offering the best sensitivity and specificity for the detection and measurement of drugs and their metabolites in biological specimens. This finding has resulted in the widespread use of GC/MS in many areas of pharmacology and toxicology. However, a GC/MS assay can be performed in many ways, depending upon the specific requirements of the analytical tasks. For example, pharmacokinetic studies generally employ chemical ionization and single-ion monitoring to obtain optimum sensitivity, whereas GC/MS methods for confirmation of the presence of drugs of abuse in urine most often use electron ionization and multiple-ion monitoring to obtain conclusive results. Another example is the increasing use of the combination of gas chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (GC/MS/MS) for analyses requiring sensitivities better than nanograms per milliliter. Examples of the application of GC/MS and GC/MS/MS methods for the detection of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol, naltrexone, and their active metabolites are described and compared in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and unique features.
18033636	Metabolism of CJ-036878, N-(3-phenethoxybenzyl)-4-hydroxybenzamide, in liver microsomes and recombinant cytochrome P450 enzymes: metabolite identification by LC-UV/MS(n) and (1)H-NMR.	The identification of metabolites in the early stages of drug discovery is important not only for guiding structure-activity relationships (SAR) and structure-metabolism relationships (SMR) strategies, but also for predicting the potential for adverse events. The present study investigated the phase I metabolism of CJ-036878 (N-(3-phenethoxybenzyl)-4-hydroxybenzamide), a potent antagonist of the N-methyl-D-asparatate (NMDA) receptor, using liver microsomes and representative recombinant cytochrome P450 enzymes. The structures of the oxidative metabolites M1-M11 were confirmed by LC-UV/MS(n) and/or (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). It was found that CJ-036878 is metabolized through three routes: (1) aliphatic hydroxylation that generates M1 and M2; (2) aromatic hydroxylation that produces M3-M5, M7 and M8; and (3) dimerization through an oxidative phenol coupling reaction that yields M10 and M11. The use of recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes suggested that CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in the oxidative metabolism of CJ-036878, with minor contributions from CYP1A2, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6.
20185540	Identification of novel metabolic pathways of pioglitazone in hepatocytes: N-glucuronidation of thiazolidinedione ring and sequential ring-opening pathway.	The metabolism of [(14)C]pioglitazone was studied in vitro in incubations with freshly isolated human, rat, and monkey hepatocytes. Radioactivity detection high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of incubation extracts showed the detection of 13 metabolites (M1-M13) formed in incubations with human hepatocytes. An identical set of metabolites (M1-M13) was also detected in monkey hepatocytes. However, in rat hepatocytes, M1 through M3, M5 through M7, M9 through M11, and M13 were also detected, but M4, M8, and M12 were not detected. The structures of the metabolites were elucidated by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry using electrospray ionization. Novel metabolites of pioglitazone detected using these methods included thiazolidinedione ring-opened methyl sulfoxide amide (M1), thiazolidinedione ring-opened N-glucuronide (M2), thiazolidinedione ring-opened methyl sulfone amide (M3), thiazolidinedione ring N-glucuronide (M7), thiazolidinedione ring-opened methylmercapto amide (M8), and thiazolidinedione ring-opened methylmercapto carboxylic acid (M11). In summary, based on the results from these studies, two novel metabolic pathways for pioglitazone in hepatocytes are proposed to be as follows: 1) N-glucuronidation of the thiazolidinedione ring of pioglitazone to form M7 followed by hydrolysis to M2, and methylation of the mercapto group of the thiazolidinedione ring-opened mercapto carboxylic acid to form M11; and 2) methylation of the mercapto group of the thiazolidinedione ring-opened mercapto amide to form M8, oxidation of M8 to form M1, and oxidation of M1 to form M3.
15946814	Distribution of ethyl glucuronide in rib bone marrow, other tissues and body liquids as proof of alcohol consumption before death.	Postmortem ethyl glucuronide (EtG) concentrations in rib bone marrow, liver, muscle, fat tissue, urine, blood and bile have been determined by LC-MS/MS. Samples have been taken from twelve corpses during autopsies. In nine corpses EtG could be detected, corresponding blood ethanol concentrations (BAC) were 0.04-0.37 g%. In three cases, no EtG was found; two of these cases showed postmortem BACs - possibly due to putrefaction - of 0.01 and 0.1g%. In rib bone marrow, which is easily accessible during autopsy, EtG concentrations (0.77-9.36 microg/g) have been lower than in blood (2.24-20.46 microg/mL) in eight of nine cases and comparable or higher than in muscle tissue. Therefore, rib bone marrow has been found suitable as matrix for EtG determination. The highest EtG concentrations have been found in urine in all but one case, where the resorption of ethanol had been incomplete. Second highest EtG concentrations have been detected in liver samples. In two cases with putrefaction, EtG could not be detected. In these cases, the detectable ethanol might have been produced partially or in total by postmortem fermentation. However, instability of EtG during putrefaction cannot be totally excluded which might result in a total loss of EtG.
8012560	Bioanalysis of digoxin and its metabolites using direct serum injection combined with liquid chromatography and on-line immunochemical detection.	An automated dual-column liquid chromatographic assay for digoxin is described. Serum samples are directly injected onto a restricted-access solid-phase extraction support. After liquid chromatographic (LC) separation on a C18 analytical column, antigenic analytes are detected by means of post-column immunochemical detection (ICD) using fluorescein-labelled antibodies against digoxigenin. The detection limit of this assay is 160 pg/ml (preconcentration of 1.0 ml serum). With the present method digoxin and three of its cross-reactive metabolites were determined in serum taken from patients which were orally administered a 1-mg dose of digoxin. The results obtained with LC-ICD were compared with data provided by a batch immunoassay.
15315768	Determination of phenprocoumon, warfarin and their monohydroxylated metabolites in human plasma and urine by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry after solid-phase extraction.	A high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) method for the quantification of phenprocoumon, warfarin, and their known monohydroxylated metabolites in human plasma and urine was developed using a simple, selective solid-phase extraction scheme. Chromatographic separation was achieved on a reversed-phase Luna C18 column and step gradient elution resulted in a total run time of about 13 min. Limits of quantification (LOQ) were < or = 40 nM for the parent compounds and < or = 25 nM for the metabolites and the limit of detection (LOD) was < or = 2.5 nM for all analytes. Average recovery was 84% (+/- 3.7) and 74% (+/- 13.2) in plasma and urine, respectively. Intra- and inter-day coefficients of variation were < or = 8.6 and < or = 10.6% in plasma and urine, respectively. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of phenprocoumon samples from four healthy volunteers and should prove useful for future comparative studies of warfarin and phenprocoumon pharmacokinetics.
23097240	Effects of ketoconazole treatment on the pharmacokinetics of safinamide and its plasma metabolites in healthy adult subjects.	The purpose of this mechanistic drug interaction study was to investigate the effects of ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetics of safinamide. Ketoconazole was applied as a potent prototypic inhibitor of cytochrome CYP3A4, to determine the role of CYP3A4 in the metabolic clearance of safinamide. In an open-label, randomized, two-period, two-sequence cross-over study, 14 healthy adult subjects (7 males/7 females) received two single doses of 100 mg safinamide: alone and on top of multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg b.i.d.) given over 6 days. Serial blood samples were collected over 240 h post dose to quantify safinamide parent drug and metabolite concentrations for pharmacokinetic evaluation. Safinamide exposure was essentially unchanged when administered with and without ketoconazole: C(max) and AUC(0-) point estimates (90% CIs) for the treatment comparison were 106.6 (101.0; 112.4) and 112.9 (109.8; 116.03), respectively. Similarly, ketoconazole did not influence the formation and clearance of safinamide metabolites to a clinically relevant extent. Overall, the study shows that CYP3A4 plays a minor role in the metabolism of safinamide in vivo. Therefore, safinamide can be administered together with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors without any requirement for dose adjustment.
15845858	Variability of CYP3A7 expression in human fetal liver.	Fetal liver CYP3A7 plays an important role in placental estriol synthesis during pregnancy, yet little is known concerning the extent or consequences of variability in expression. The purpose of this investigation was to characterize the variability in CYP3A7 expression using several phenotypic measures in a panel of 54 fetal livers ranging in age from 76 days to 32 weeks gestation. CYP3A7 mRNA expression was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, whereas immunoreactive CYP3A7 was determined using an affinity-purified antipeptide antibody. Variability in catalytic activity was evaluated using testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) as substrates. Across the entire panel, CYP3A7 was the most abundant CYP3A mRNA species present and varied 634-fold from 151 to 95,700 transcripts/ng total RNA, corrected for 18S ribosomal RNA. CYP3A4 expression was minimal based on mRNA expression (1000-fold lower than CYP3A7) and the ratio of testosterone 2alpha- (T2alphaH) to 6beta- (T6betaH) hydroxylation. T2alphaH and T6betaH were highly correlated (r(2) = 0.859), and the correlation increased (r(2) = 0.974) in livers with CYP3A5*3/*3 genotypes implying that the same enzyme (CYP3A7) generated both products. Overall, T2alphaH and DHEA16alphaH activities varied 175- and 250-fold, respectively. A subset of five samples had extremely low mRNA, protein, and catalytic activity, possibly due to pathology affecting fetal viability (anencephaly, porencephaly). In the remaining samples, T2alphaH activity varied 6.7-fold (358 +/- 142, range 97 to 643 pmol/min/mg) and DHEA16alphaH activity varied 6.2-fold (8.07 +/- 2.87, range 2.41 to 14.9 nmol/min/mg). Observed variability in CYP3A7 activity was not related to CYP3A7*2, and alternative regulatory mechanisms require further investigation.
17331342	Pharmacokinetics and distribution of clioquinol in golden hamsters.	Clioquinol (5-chloro-7-iodo-8-quinolinol) is a zinc and copper chelator that can dissolve amyloid deposits and may be beneficial in Alzheimer's disease. Prion diseases are also degenerative CNS disorders characterised by amyloid deposits. The pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of drugs active against prions may clarify their targets of action. We describe the pharmacokinetics of clioquinol in hamster plasma, spleen and brain after single and repeated oral or intraperitoneal administration (50 mg kg(-1)), as well as after administration with the diet. A single intraperitoneal administration led to peak plasma clioquinol concentrations after 15 min (Tmax), followed by a decay with an apparent half-life of 2.20 +/- 1.1 h. After oral administration, Tmax was reached after 30 min and was followed by a similar process of decay; the AUC(0-last) was 16% that recorded after intraperitoneal administration. The Cmax and AUC values in spleen after a single administration were about 65% (i.p.) and 25% (p.o.) those observed in blood; those in liver were 35% (p.o.) those observed in blood and those in brain were 20% (i.p.) and 10% (p.o.) those observed in plasma. After repeated oral doses, the plasma, brain and spleen concentrations were similar to those observed at the same times after a single dose. One hour after intraperitoneal dosing, clioquinol was also found in the ventricular CSF. Clioquinol was also given with the diet; its morning and afternoon concentrations were similar, and matched those after oral administration. No toxicity was found after chronic administration. Our results indicate that clioquinol, after oral administration with the diet, reaches concentrations in brain and peripheral tissues (particularly spleen) that can be considered effective in preventing prion accumulation, but are at least ten times lower than those likely to cause toxicity.
12376128	Personal exposure to different levels of benzene and its relationships to the urinary metabolites S-phenylmercapturic acid and trans,trans-muconic acid.	This report is part of an extensive study to verify the validity, specificity, and sensitivity of biomarkers of benzene at low exposures and assess their relationships with personal exposure and genetic damage. The study population was selected from benzene-exposed workers in Tianjin, China, based on historical exposure data. The recruitment of 130 exposed workers from glue-making or shoe-making plants and 51 unexposed subjects from nearby food factories was based on personal exposure measurements conducted for 3-4 weeks prior to collection of biological samples. In this report we investigated correlation of urinary benzene metabolites, S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) with personal exposure levels on the day of urine collection and studied the effect of dose on the biotransformation of benzene to these key metabolites. Urinary S-PMA and t,t-MA were determined simultaneously by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analyses. Both S-PMA and t,t-MA, but specifically the former, correlated well with personal benzene exposure over a broad range of exposure (0.06-122 ppm). There was good correlation in the subgroup that had been exposed to <1 ppm benzene with both metabolites (P-trend <0.0001 for S-PMA and 0.006 for t,t-MA). Furthermore, the levels of S-PMA were significantly higher in the subgroup exposed to <0.25 ppm than that in unexposed subjects (n=17; P=0.001). There is inter-individual variation in the rate of conversion of benzene into urinary metabolites. The percentage of biotransformation of benzene to urinary S-PMA ranged from 0.005 to 0.3% and that to urinary t,t-MA ranged from 0.6 to approximately 20%. The percentage of benzene biotransformed into S-PMA and t,t-MA decreased with increasing concentration of benzene, especially conversion of benzene into t,t-MA. It appears that women excreted more metabolites than men for the same levels of benzene exposures. Our data suggest that S-PMA is superior to t,t-MA as a biomarker for low levels of benzene exposure.
18282563	Oxidative DNA damage and influence of genetic polymorphisms among urban and rural schoolchildren exposed to benzene.	Traffic related urban air pollution is a major environmental health problem in many large cities. Children living in urban areas are exposed to benzene and other toxic pollutants simultaneously on a regular basis. Assessment of benzene exposure and oxidative DNA damage in schoolchildren in Bangkok compared with the rural schoolchildren was studied through the use of biomarkers. Benzene levels in ambient air at the roadside adjacent to Bangkok schools was 3.95-fold greater than that of rural school areas. Personal exposure to benzene in Bangkok schoolchildren was 3.04-fold higher than that in the rural schoolchildren. Blood benzene, urinary benzene and urinary muconic acid (MA) levels were significantly higher in the Bangkok schoolchildren. A significantly higher level of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in leukocytes and in urine was found in Bangkok children than in the rural children. There was a significant correlation between individual benzene exposure level and blood benzene (rs=0.193, P<0.05), urinary benzene (rs=0.298, P<0.05), urinary MA (rs=0.348, P<0.01), and 8-OHdG in leukocyte (rs=0.130, P<0.05). In addition, a significant correlation between urinary MA and 8-OHdG in leukocytes (rs=0.241, P<0.05) was also found. Polymorphisms of various xenobiotic metabolizing genes responsible for susceptibility to benzene toxicity have been studied; however only the GSTM1 genotypes had a significant effect on urinary MA excretion. Our data indicates that children living in the areas of high traffic density are exposed to a higher level of benzene than those living in rural areas. Exposure to higher level of benzene in urban children may contribute to oxidative DNA damage, suggesting an increased health risk from traffic benzene emission.
8305581	Coupling of HPLC with 19F- and 1H-NMR spectroscopy to investigate the human urinary excretion of flurbiprofen metabolites.	Results of an on-line HPLC-NMR analysis of human urine from a volunteer administered the anti-inflammatory drug flurbiprofen are reported. The two major human urinary metabolites, namely the glucuronides of flurbiprofen and of 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen, have been identified using 1H- and 19F-NMR spectroscopy. In vivo conjugation of the racemic drug and its metabolites with D-glucuronic acid results in diastereomeric molecules which give resolved NMR spectra thereby permitting the diastereomeric proportions to be evaluated. The cause of the observed deviation from equal proportions is discussed. This study represents the first use of both 19F- and 600 MHz 1H-NMR spectroscopy coupled to HPLC.
17178261	Differential effect of chronic renal failure on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in patients receiving and not receiving hemodialysis.	The effect of chronic renal failure (CRF) on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine, a drug cleared almost exclusively by hepatic metabolism, has thus far only been evaluated in patients undergoing regular hemodialysis. This study had 2 objectives: (1) to investigate the effect of CRF on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in both patients undergoing hemodialysis and patients not undergoing hemodialysis and (2) to test the effects of plasma from the patients examined and of lidocaine metabolites possibly accumulated in vivo on lidocaine biotransformation in vitro. In a clinical investigation we studied the kinetics of lidocaine and its metabolites, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and glycinexylidide (GX), after intravenous injection of 1 mg/kg lidocaine in 15 healthy volunteers (creatinine clearance [CL(cr)] >80 mL/min x 1.73 m(-2)), 10 subjects with moderate renal insufficiency (CL(cr) between 30 and 60 mL/min x 1.73 m(-2)), 10 subjects with severe renal insufficiency (CL(cr) <30 mL/min x 1.73 m(-2)), and 10 functionally anephric patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis. In experiments in vitro we determined the effects of plasma and GX on the formation rate of the primary lidocaine metabolite, MEGX, by use of human liver microsomes. In patients not undergoing hemodialysis, lidocaine kinetic parameters were altered in proportion to the degree of renal function impairment, but only in patients with severe renal insufficiency were differences statistically significant: clearance was about half that of control subjects (mean +/- SD, 6.01 +/- 2.54 mL/min x kg versus 11.87 +/- 2.97 mL/min x kg; P < .001), and half-life was approximately doubled (4.55 +/- 1.71 hours versus 2.24 +/- 0.55 hours, P < .001). No such alterations were observed in patients undergoing regular hemodialysis, whose values were similar to those of the control group. The steady-state volume of distribution and MEGX levels were independent of renal function, whereas GX levels were more than double those of control subjects (P < .05) in all CRF groups. No inhibitory effect of plasma was observed, for any of the subjects examined, on lidocaine biotransformation in vitro. GX was found to be a competitive inhibitor, but its apparent inhibition constant value (52 +/- 6 micromol/L) was 2 orders of magnitude higher than its concentrations in vivo. Our in vivo findings have both clinical and methodologic implications: (1) Lidocaine dose adjustment may be required in patients with severe renal insufficiency who are not receiving hemodialysis. (2) Results of studies evaluating the effect of CRF on metabolic drug disposition are not of general validity, unless both patients undergoing hemodialysis and patients not undergoing hemodialysis have been examined. Our in vitro observations exclude that impairment of lidocaine disposition is the result of direct inhibition of metabolizing enzymes by accumulated metabolites or uremic toxins. Alternative mechanisms, suggested by the results of recent in vitro studies, are discussed.
12433826	Effects of olopatadine, a new antiallergic agent, on human liver microsomal cytochrome P450 activities.	Olopatadine, a new histamine H(1) receptor-selective antagonist, is a tricyclic drug containing an alkylamino moiety. Some compounds containing a similar alkylamino group form a cytochrome p450 (p450) -iron (II)-nitrosoalkane metabolite complex [metabolic intermediate complex (MIC)], thereby causing quasi-irreversible inhibition of the p450. There was concern that olopatadine might also form MICs, therefore, the present investigation was undertaken to explore this possibility. We identified the enzymes catalyzing olopatadine metabolism and investigated the effect of olopatadine on human p450 activities. During incubation with human liver microsomes in the presence of a NADPH-generating system, olopatadine was metabolized to two metabolites, M1 (N-monodemethylolopatadine) and M3 (olopatadine N-oxide) at rates of 0.330 and 2.50 pmol/min/mg protein, respectively. Troleandomycin and ketoconazole, which are both selective inhibitors of CYP3A, significantly reduced M1 formation but specific inhibitors of other p450 isozymes did not decrease M1 formation. Incubation of olopatadine with cDNA-expressed human p450 isozymes confirmed that M1 formation was almost exclusively catalyzed by CYP3A4. The formation of M3 was enhanced by N-octylamine and was inhibited by thiourea. High specific activity of M3 formation was exhibited by cDNA-expressed flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO)1 and FMO3. Olopatadine did not inhibit p450 activities when it was simultaneously incubated with substrates for different p450 isozymes. Also, p450 activities in human liver microsomes were unaffected by pretreatment with olopatadine or M1. Furthermore, spectral analysis revealed that neither olopatadine nor M1 formed an MIC. Therefore, it is unlikely that olopatadine will cause drug-drug interactions involving p450 isozymes.
19446239	Relationship between human paraoxonase-1 activity and PON1 polymorphisms in Mexican workers exposed to organophosphate pesticides.	Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) is a serum enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of organophosphate pesticides. In this study we conducted a cross-sectional study and reported on the distribution of three common genetic polymorphisms of the PON1 gene in a population of floriculture workers from Mexico as well as the association between those polymorphisms and other predictors with serum PON1 activity on paraoxon, diazoxon and phenylacetate. The genotype frequencies at position PON1(55) were 89% (LL), 10% (LM) and 0.6% (MM), at position PON1(192) they were 16% (QQ), 47% (QR) and 37% (RR), and 26% (TT), 42% (TC) and 32% (CC) at position PON1(-108). Thus, the frequencies of alleles L, Q and T were 0.94, 0.40 and 0.47, respectively. The PON1(55) polymorphism had no significant effect on serum PON1 activity on any substrate. We found a significant association between the PON1(192) polymorphism and PON1 activity towards paraoxon and diazoxon, which increased in genotypes as follows: 192RR>192QR>192QQ for paraoxonase activity and, inversely, 192QQ>192QR>192RR for diazoxonase activity. The PON1(-108) polymorphism also had a significant effect on PON1 activity level towards paraoxon in the following order among the genotype groups: -108CC>-108TC>-108TT. Serum PON1 activity towards diazoxon was not associated with the PON1(-108) polymorphism but it was influenced by the intensity exposure to pesticides at the floriculture industry and the years of the occupational exposure to pesticides. No polymorphism significantly influenced serum PON1 activity on phenylacetate.
20873879	A pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of oral oxycodone in a human experimental pain model of hyperalgesia.	Oxycodone is not as well characterized, with respect to its pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic properties, as other opioids. Moreover, the pharmacodynamic profile of oxycodone can be affected by changes in the pain system, e.g. hyperalgesia. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profiles of oxycodone in a human experimental pain model of hyperalgesia. Twenty-four healthy subjects received oral oxycodone (15 mg) or placebo. Pharmacodynamics were assessed utilizing a multimodal, multi-tissue paradigm where pain was assessed from skin (heat), muscle (pressure) and viscera (heat and electricity) before and 30, 60 and 90 minutes after induction of generalized hyperalgesia evoked by perfusion of acid and capsaicin in the oesophagus. Venous blood samples were obtained for quantification of oxycodone plasma concentrations before and 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after drug administration. Oxycodone blood concentrations could be described by a one-compartment model but, given the necessarily short timescale of the study, the concentrations were represented by linear interpolation for subsequent pharmacodynamic models. Time-dependent changes in the pain measures in the placebo arm of the study were represented by linear or quadratic functions. The time course of the pain measures in the oxycodone arm was taken to be the time course for the placebo arm plus a concentration-effect relationship that was either zero (no drug effect), linear or a maximum effect (E(max)) model. For three of the four pain measures, there was a time-dependent change after administration of placebo (e.g. due to the development of generalized hyperalgesia). There was a measurable effect of oxycodone, compared with placebo, on all pain measures, and a linear concentration-effect relationship without an effect delay was demonstrated. This could indicate an initial peripheral analgesic effect of oxycodone.
8301033	Assessment of lidocaine metabolite formation in comparison with other quantitative liver function tests.	In clinical practice, the seriousness of liver disease is assessed based on the combined information from clinical examination, routine biochemical tests, and liver histology. Recently, the assessment of hepatic lidocaine metabolism has been proposed as a quantitative liver function test offering valuable additional information. To evaluate whether this new liver function test reflects the combined clinical assessment, we prospectively measured lidocaine metabolism in 111 patients with well characterized liver disease. In addition, lidocaine test results were compared with the aminopyrine breath test and the galactose elimination capacity. Lidocaine (1 mg/kg) was injected i.v. and serum concentrations of its main metabolite monoethylglycinexylidide were determined after 15 min. The results varied widely and the means (+/- S.D.) were similar among patients with mild liver disease (46 +/- 23 ng/ml), but significantly (P < 0.05) lower among patients with Child class A cirrhosis (19 +/- 11 ng/ml) or Child class B or C cirrhosis (21 +/- 19 ng/ml). The [13C]aminopyrine breath test, however, gave a better discrimination among patients with increasing severity of liver disease than lidocaine metabolite formation. The galactose elimination capacity finally best separated patients with mild liver disease from those with cirrhosis. The correlations between any two of the different quantitative liver function tests were weak (R2 consistently < 0.2). We conclude that lidocaine metabolite formation, like other quantitative liver function tests that are based on the microsomal metabolism of model compounds, quantitates a very particular enzymatic reaction which may not be representative for the functional reserve of the entire organ.
11606140	N-Succinyl-(beta-alanyl-L-leucyl-L-alanyl-L-leucyl)doxorubicin: an extracellularly tumor-activated prodrug devoid of intravenous acute toxicity.	Intravenous administration of N-(beta-alanyl-L-leucyl-L-alanyl-L-leucyl)doxorubicin (4) induces an acute toxic reaction, killing animals in a few minutes. This results from its positive charge at physiological pH combined with its propensity to form large aggregates in aqueous solutions. Negatively charged N-capped versions of 4 such as the succinyl derivative 5 can be administered by the iv route at more than 10 times the LD(50) of doxorubicin without inducing the acute toxic reaction, and they are active in vivo.
19110477	Validated LC-MS/MS method for determination of Alverine and one of its hydroxy metabolites in human plasma along with its application to a bioequivalence study.	The present research work involves a first of its kind rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method developed and validated for simultaneous analysis of Alverine (ALV) and one of its hydroxy metabolites, para hydroxy Alverine (PHA) in human plasma. The analytes were extracted from the matrix using a simple solid-phase extraction procedure. Mebeverine was used as the internal standard for both analytes. A Kromasil C8 column provided chromatographic separation of analytes followed by detection with mass spectrometry. The method involves simple isocratic chromatography conditions and mass spectrometric detection in the positive ionization mode using an API 5000 MS/MS system. The proposed method has been validated with a linear range of 100-10,000 pg/mL for both ALV and PHA. The interrun and intrarun precision values are within 6.3%, 3.7% for ALV and 6.3%, 3.2% for PHA at LOQ levels. The intrarun accuracy in terms of % RE was within the range of -7.0% to -0.1% and -8.1% to -1.7% for ALV and PHA, respectively whereas the interrun accuracy was within the range of -5.1% to -0.5% for ALV and -8.6% to 0.4% for PHA, respectively. The overall recoveries for ALV and PHA were 83.5% and 86.2% respectively. Total elution time was about 4 min which allowed quantitation of more than 150 plasma samples per day. This validated method was used successfully for analysis of real samples from a bioequivalence study.
22126990	Investigation of drug-drug interactions caused by human pregnane X receptor-mediated induction of CYP3A4 and CYP2C subfamilies in chimeric mice with a humanized liver.	The induction of cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes is one of the risk factors for drug-drug interactions (DDIs). To date, the human pregnane X receptor (PXR)-mediated CYP3A4 induction has been well studied. In addition to CYP3A4, the expression of CYP2C subfamily is also regulated by PXR, and the DDIs caused by the induction of CYP2C enzymes have been reported to have a major clinical impact. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether chimeric mice with a humanized liver (PXB mice) can be a suitable animal model for investigating the PXR-mediated induction of CYP2C subfamily, together with CYP3A4. We evaluated the inductive effect of rifampicin (RIF), a typical human PXR ligand, on the plasma exposure to the four P450 substrate drugs (triazolam/CYP3A4, pioglitazone/CYP2C8, (S)-warfarin/CYP2C9, and (S)-(-)-mephenytoin/CYP2C19) by cassette dosing in PXB mice. The induction of several drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in the liver was also examined by measuring the enzyme activity and mRNA expression levels. Significant reductions in the exposure to triazolam, pioglitazone, and (S)-(-)-mephenytoin, but not to (S)-warfarin, were observed. In contrast to the in vivo results, all the four P450 isoforms, including CYP2C9, were elevated by RIF treatment. The discrepancy in the (S)-warfarin results between in vivo and in vitro studies may be attributed to the relatively small contribution of CYP2C9 to (S)-warfarin elimination in the PXB mice used in this study. In summary, PXB mice are a useful animal model to examine DDIs caused by PXR-mediated induction of CYP2C and CYP3A4.
18703645	Preclinical pharmacokinetics of a HepDirect prodrug of a novel phosphonate-containing thyroid hormone receptor agonist.	The prodrug [(2R,4S)-4-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-[(3,5-dimethyl-4-(4'-hydroxy-3'-isopropylbenzyl)phenoxy)methyl]-2-oxido-[1,3,2]-dioxaphosphonane (MB07811)] of a novel phosphonate-containing thyroid hormone receptor agonist [3,5-dimethyl-4-(4'-hydroxy-3'-isopropylbenzyl)phenoxylmethylphosphonic acid (MB07344)] is the first application of the HepDirect liver-targeting approach to a non-nucleotide agent. The disposition of MB07811 was characterized in rat, dog, and monkey to assess its liver specificity, which is essential in limiting the extrahepatic side effects associated with this class of lipid-lowering agents. MB07811 was converted to MB07344 in liver microsomes from all species tested (CL(int) 1.23-145.4 microl/min/mg). The plasma clearance and volume of distribution of MB07811 matched or exceeded 1 l/h/kg and 3 l/kg, respectively. Although absorption of prodrug was good, its absolute oral bioavailability as measured systemically was low (3-10%), an indication of an extensive hepatic first-pass effect. This effect was confirmed by comparison of systemic exposure levels of MB07811 after portal and jugular vein administration to rats, which demonstrated a hepatic extraction ratio of >0.6 with liver CYP3A-mediated conversion to MB07344 being a major component. The main route of elimination of MB07811 and MB07344 was biliary, with no evidence for enterohepatic recirculation of MB07344. Similar metabolic profiles of MB07811 were obtained in liver microsomes across the species tested. Tissue distribution and whole body autoradiography confirmed that the liver is the major target organ of MB07811 and that conversion to MB07344 was high in the liver relative to that in other tissues. Hepatic first-pass extraction and metabolism of MB07811, coupled with possible selective distribution of MB07811-derived MB07344, led to a high degree of liver targeting of MB07344.
14713371	Metabolites of orally administered Magnolia officinalis extract in rats and man and its antidepressant-like effects in mice.	As a part of our search for the active metabolite from the bark of Magnolia officinalis (Magnoliaceae), the aqueous extract was orally administered to rats, and metabolites in the urine were analysed by a high-performance liquid chromatograph equipped with a photodiode array detector. When the extract was given to rats, five metabolites (sinapic acid-4-O-sulfate (1), sinapic acid-4-O-beta-glucuronide (2), sinapic acid (3), 3-[2',6-dihydroxy-5'-(2-propenyl)[1,1'-biphenyl]-3-yl]-(E)-2-propenoic acid (4), and an unchanged form, magnolol (5)) were detected in the urine. It was revealed that metabolites 1-3 and 4 were respectively derived from syringin and magnolol contained in the extract. In a human urine sample, metabolites 3-5 and dihydroxydihydromagnolol (6) were detected. These structures were identified by a combination of spectral methods and/or by comparison with authentic compounds obtained by synthesis. Among these free form metabolites (3-6), acute treatments with magnolol and dihydroxydihydromagnolol (50-100 mg kg(-1), i.p.) attenuated the forced swim-induced experimental depression in mice. The results indicated that magnolol and dihydroxydihydromagnolol were the antidepressant constituents of Magnolia officinalis.
18155741	Formation of dimethylthioarsenicals in red blood cells.	The bladder and skin are the primary targets for arsenic-induced carcinogenicity in mammals. Thioarsenicals dimethylmonothioarsinic (DMMTA(V)) and dimethyldithioarsinic (DMDTA(V)) acids are common urinary metabolites, the former being much more toxic than non-thiolated dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)) and comparable to dimethylarsinous acid (DMAIII) in epidermoid cells, suggesting that the metabolic production of thioarsenicals may be a risk factor for the development of cancer in these organs. To reveal their production sites (tissues/body fluids), we examined the uptake and transformation of the four dimethylated arsenicals by incubation with rat and human red blood cells (RBCs). Although DMA(V) and DMDTA(V) were not taken up by either type of RBCs, DMAIII and DMMTA(V) were taken up by both (more efficiently by rat ones), though DMMTA(V) was taken up slowly, and then the arsenic transformed into DMDTA(V) was excreted from both types of animal RBCs. On the other hand, although DMA(III) taken up rapidly by rat RBCs was retained in the RBCs, that taken up by human RBCs was immediately transformed into DMMTA(V) and then excreted into the incubation medium without being retained in the RBCs. In a separate experiment, arsenic remaining in primary rat hepatocytes after incubation with 1.5 microM DMAIII was recovered from the incubation medium in the forms of DMA(V) and DMMTA(V) in the presence of human RBCs, but not in the presence of rat RBCs (in which the arsenic was bound to hemoglobin). Thus, DMMTA(V) was detected in the medium only in the presence of human RBCs and increased with incubation time. It was proposed that arsenic is excreted from hepatocytes into the bloodstream in the form of DMAIII and then taken up by RBCs in humans, where it is transformed into DMMTA(V) and then excreted again into the bloodstream.
15838656	Aprepitant inhibits cyclophosphamide bioactivation and thiotepa metabolism.	Patients receiving the highly emetogenic high-dose chemotherapy regimen with cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin (CTC) may benefit from the neurokin-1 receptor antagonist aprepitant in addition to standard anti-emetic therapy. As aprepitant has been shown to be a moderate inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 isoenzyme, its effect on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of cyclophosphamide and thiotepa was evaluated. Moreover, preliminary results on the clinical efficacy of aprepitant in the CTC regimen are reported. Six patients were enrolled in a protocol that employed a 4-day course of CTC high-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (1,500 mg/m2/day), thiotepa (120 mg/m2/day) and carboplatin (AUC 5 mg min/ml/day). Two patients received the tCTC protocol, which comprises two-third of the dose of CTC. In addition to standard anti-emetic therapy, the patients received aprepitant from one day before the start of their course until 3 days after chemotherapy. Blood samples were collected on days one and three of the course and analyzed for cyclophosphamide and its activated metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide, thiotepa and its main active metabolite tepa. The influence of aprepitant on the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide and thiotepa was analyzed using a population pharmacokinetic analysis including a reference population of 49 patients receiving the same chemotherapy regimen without aprepitant and sampled under the same conditions. The frequency of nausea and vomiting in the six patients receiving CTC was compared with those of the last 22 consecutive patients receiving CTC chemotherapy without aprepitant. Inhibitory activity of aprepitant on cyclophosphamide and thiotepa metabolism was also tested in human liver microsomes. In our patient population, the rate of autoinduction of cyclophosphamide (P=0.040) and the formation clearance of tepa (P<0.001) were reduced with 23% and 33% when aprepitant was co-administered, respectively. Exposures to the active metabolite 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and tepa were therefore reduced (5% and 20%, respectively) in the presence of aprepitant. In human liver microsomes, the 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC50) of aprepitant for inhibition of cyclophosphamide (IC50=1.3 microg/ml) and thiotepa (IC50=0.27 microg/ml) metabolism were within the therapeutic range. Patients receiving aprepitant experienced less frequently CINV both during and after the CTC course compared with the reference population (nausea 3.7 days vs. 5.8 days, P=0.052; vomiting 0.5 days vs. 4.8 days, P<0.001). Aprepitant inhibited both cyclophosphamide and thiotepa metabolism, most probably due to inhibition of the CYP 3A4 and/or 2B6 isoenzymes. The effects of this interaction are, however, small compared to the total variability. Addition of aprepitant may provide superior protection against vomiting in patients receiving the highly emetogenic high-dose CTC chemotherapy.
12698990	Oxcarbazepine final market image tablet formulation bioequivalence study after single administration and at steady state in healthy subjects.	A final market image (FMI) tablet formulation of oxcarbazepine was compared with the marketed formulation (current market formulation (CMF)) and with the clinical trial formulation (CTF) tablet used during clinical efficacy and safety studies. The goal of the study was to compare the bioavailability after single doses and at steady state of the FMI versus CMF and CTF as well. Additionally, the effect of food was evaluated on the final market formulation. The study was an open-label, single-center, 4-way crossover trial. Each treatment period consisted of a single dose of 600 mg OXC on Day 1. From Day 4 up to including Day 7, 600 mg b.i.d. were administered. A final dose of 600 mg was administered in the morning on Day 8. Blood samples were taken on Day 1 before and on Day 7 (predose) and on Day 8 (morning dose). Plasma concentrations of MHD (the main metabolite of OXC) were determined by using a validated HPLC assay. FMI as test formulation was compared with the CMF and CTF as reference formulations. FMI under fed conditions was also compared with FMI under fasting conditions. These comparisons were made using data following single-dose administration and steady state conditions. Plasma AUC for single dose or AUC(0-12h) for steady state, and plasma Cmax, log-transformed (natural base), were used for the assessment of bioequivalence. The 90% confidence interval (CI) approach was used for testing bioequivalence. Bioequivalence was accepted if the CI was contained within the region (0.8, 1.25). At steady state under fed conditions, tested formulation (FMI) was bioequivalent to CTF and with the reference marketed formulation (CMF) with regard to AUC and Cmax. After single dose under fed conditions, FMI and CTF were bioequivalent with regard to AUC and Cmax, and FMI and CMF were equivalent with regard to AUC but not Cmax. Food had no effect on the bioavailability of the FMI. These results clearly support the switch from the current market formulation (CMF) to the final market image tablet in the countries where Trileptal is or was already registered.
16028005	Role of intestinal first-pass metabolism of baicalein in its absorption process.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of intestinal first-pass metabolism of baicalein (B) in its absorption process. The intestinal absorption of B was characterized using Caco-2 cell monolayer model and rat in situ single-pass intestinal perfusion model. In addition, preliminary metabolic kinetics of B was evaluated in both rat and human intestinal S9 fractions. B was well absorbed and extensively metabolized to baicalin (BG), baicalein-7-O-beta-glucuronide, in rat intestinal perfusion model, whereas less extent of metabolism was observed in the Caco-2 cell monolayer model. Moreover, BG generated in the intestinal epithelium during the absorption of B also rapidly transported to both the apical side (the apical chamber of Caco-2 model and the perfusate of the intestinal perfusion model) as well as the basolateral side of the small intestine (the basal chamber of Caco-2 model and the mesenteric vein of the intestinal perfusion model). From the preliminary metabolic studies, it was found that a higher loading dose of B resulted in a less extent of metabolism in intestine. In addition, the extent of metabolism of B was similar in jejunum and ileum when 50 microM of B was perfused through different sections of rat small intestine. The first-pass metabolism of B in small intestine may play an important role in its low oral bioavailability.
15795652	10-Hydroxycarbazepine serum concentration-to-oxcarbazepine dose ratio: influence of age and concomitant antiepileptic drugs.	This study was done to evaluate the association between patient age and the concomitant use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and oxcarbazepine (OXC) concentration-to-dose ratio (CDR) by a multivariate analysis. The influence of patient age and concomitant AEDs on the trough steady-state serum concentration of 10-hydroxycarbazepine (OHC) normalized to 1 mg/kg body weight of OXC or concentration-to-dose ratio (OHC-OXC-CDR) was assessed by analysis of covariance. Samples were collected from 106 patients (90% outpatients), aged 1-80, who were receiving OXC either alone (n = 41) or in combination with other AEDs (n = 65). The average OHC-OXC CDR was 0.70 +/- 0.26 (mean +/- SD). Analysis of covariance showed that patient age was influential (P < 0.001) and that there was a difference between the noninducers group (OXC or OXC + lamotrigine, topiramate, or valproate) and the inducers group (OXC + phenobarbital or phenytoin) (P < 0.001). The OHC-OXC CDR increased with age (r = 0.14, P < 0.001) and was approximately 48% lower in children aged 6 or less than in patients over 45, and approximately 32% lower in the inducers group than in patients receiving OXC alone. The correlation between OHC-OXC CDR and the age of the patients concerned with OXC alone was r = 0.48, P < 0.001. In the noninducers group the OHC-OXC CDR was 0.59 +/- 0.24 in patients aged 11 or less (n = 16), and 0.81 +/- 0.23 in patients over 11 years (n = 62). In the inducers group it was 0.25 +/- 0.11 in patients aged 11 or less (n = 3) and 0.57 +/- 0.18 in patients over the age of 11 (n = 25). The OHC-OXC CDR increased with patient age and decreased in the presence of enzyme-inducing AEDs in epileptic patients chronically treated with OXC. These influences may be clinically relevant, and, therefore, patient age and the presence of inducers should be considered in estimating either compliance or the OXC dose needed to achieve a desired OHC concentration.
2804433	The analysis and characterization of isomeric metabolites of temelastine by the combined use of thermospray liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	This paper describes the development and application of a combined thermospray liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric and liquid chromatographic/tandem mass spectrometric method for distinguishing between five isomeric metabolites of Temelastine, comprising four hydroxylated metabolites and one N-oxide. The method allows the unambiguous characterization of all of the isomers either on their own or in the presence of each other. Clear results were obtained for the characterization of these metabolites in biological samples. Temelastine showed extensive phase I and phase II metabolism and the methodology was used to study the aglycone structures of the glucuronide conjugates derived from the hydroxylated metabolites. Photo-diode array ultraviolet spectroscopy was used as a complementary technique to help elucidate the site of glucuronidation in these species.
20039040	A phase I trial of lomeguatrib and irinotecan in metastatic colorectal cancer.	Expression of the DNA repair protein O (6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) correlates with resistance to irinotecan in colorectal cancer cell lines. This phase I study evaluated the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lomeguatrib, an inactivating pseudosubstrate of MGMT, in combination with irinotecan in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and assessed the safety, toxicity and clinical pharmacology of combination treatment. Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer received lomeguatrib (10-80 mg PO) on days 1-5 with irinotecan (250-350 mg/m(2) IV) on day 4 of a 21-day cycle. Twenty-four patients, pre-treated with a median of 2 lines of chemotherapy, received 104 cycles of treatment. The MTD was defined as 80 mg/day lomeguatrib with 300 mg/m(2) irinotecan. The main toxicities observed were neutropaenia and diarrhoea. Lomeguatrib of 80 mg/day produced complete MGMT depletion in all available peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and paired tumour biopsies (one patient). There was no pharmacokinetic interaction between the drugs. In 22 patients assessable for tumour response, one achieved a partial response and 16 had stable disease. This study defined a tolerable dose of irinotecan in combination with lomeguatrib in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Combination treatment gave a similar response rate to irinotecan monotherapy in this heavily pre-treated patient group.
11375903	The contribution of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 on CYP1A2-mediated genotoxicity by aromatic and heterocyclic amines.	The importance of environmental and dietary arylamines, and heterocyclic amines in the etiology of human cancer is of growing interest. These pre-carcinogens are known to undergo bioactivation by cytochrome P450 (CYP)-directed oxidation, which then become substrates for the UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). Thus, glucuronidation may contribute to the elimination of CYP-mediated reactive intermediate metabolites, preventing a toxic event. In this study, human UGTs were analyzed for their ability to modulate the mutagenic actions of N-hydroxy-arylamines formed by CYP1A2. Studies with recombinant human UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT1A10, UGT2B4, UGT2B7 and UGT2B15 expressed in heterologous cell culture confirmed that UGT1A9 glucuronidated the mutagenic arylamines N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (N-hydroxy-2AAF) and 2-hydroxyamino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (N-hydroxy-PhIP). To examine the mutagenic potential of these agents, a genotoxicity assay was employed using Salmonella typhimurium NM2009, a bacterial strain expressing the umuC SOS response gene fused to a beta-galactosidase reporter lacZ gene. DNA modification results in the induction of the umuC gene and subsequent enhancement of beta-galactosidase activity. Both N-hydroxy-2AAF and N-hydroxy-PhIP stimulated a dose-dependent increase in bacterial beta-galactosidase activity. In addition, the procarcinogens 2AAF and PhIP were efficiently bioactivated to bacterial mutagens when incubated with Escherichia coli membranes expressing CYP1A2 and NADPH reductase. CYP1A2 generated 2AAF- and PhIP-mediated DNA damage, but only the action of N-hydroxy-2AAF was blocked by expressed UGT1A9. These results indicate that UGT1A9 can control the outcome of a genotoxic response. The results also indicate that while a potential toxicant such as N-hydroxy-PhIP can serve as substrate for glucuronidation, its biological actions can exceed the capacity of the detoxification pathway to prevent the mutagenic episode.
7866541	Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the simultaneous quantitation of the carboxylate and lactone forms of the camptothecin derivative irinotecan, CPT-11, and its metabolite SN-38 in plasma.	Irinotecan, also known as CPT-11 (I), is a potent semi-synthetic derivative of 20(S)-camptothecin (CPT). Like all known active derivatives of CPT, the lactone forms of I and its active metabolite SN-38 (II) are reversibly hydrolysed to inactive carboxylate forms. We describe a sensitive and selective HPLC method using the ion-pairing reagent tetrabutylammonium phosphate (TBAP) which allows the simultaneous determination of the carboxylate and lactone forms of I and II in human plasma samples following the precipitation of plasma proteins with an ice-cold mixture of acetonitrile and methanol. The mobile phase was 0.075 M ammonium acetate buffer (pH 6.4)-acetonitrile (78:22, v/v) containing 5 mM TBAP. Separation of the compounds was performed on a radially-compressed C18 column. The limits of quantitation in human plasma were 2 and 10 ng/ml for the two forms of II and I, respectively. In addition, we propose the use of CPT lactone both as an internal standard and as a "watchdog" for sample status. Under unsuitable storage conditions, CPT elutes increasingly in its carboxylate form thereby alerting the operator of possibly erroneous determinations of the concentrations of both forms of I and II. The retention times of the peaks of interest are well separated from the solvent front. This enables the detection of early eluting metabolites. The method was successfully used for monitoring of the two forms of I and II in patients treated with I.
8581139	Highly sensitive and specific high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of 7-hydroxywarfarin, a marker for human cytochrome P-4502C9 activity.	The formation of 7-hydroxywarfarin in incubations of (S)-warfarin with human liver microsomes reflects their cytochrome P-4502C9 activity. This paper describes a rapid high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of 7-hydroxywarfarin with high sensitivity, selectivity, and a simple sample clean-up procedure. Separation was achieved with a C18 reversed-phase column and quantification by fluorometric detection. The method employs an internal standard resulting in good accuracy and precision. The limit of detection is 150 fmol for 7-hydroxywarfarin.
19487247	Influence of N-terminal domain histidine and proline residues on the substrate selectivities of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1, 1A6, 1A9, 2B7, and 2B10.	An N-terminal domain histidine [corresponding to position 39 of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1] is conserved in all UGT1A and UGT2B subfamily proteins except UGT1A4 (Pro-40) and UGT2B10 (Leu-34). Unlike most UGT1A and UGT2B xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes, UGT1A4 and UGT2B10 lack the ability to glucuronidate 4-methylumbelliferone (4MU) and 1-naphthol (1NP), both planar phenols, and naproxen (a carboxylic acid). However, only UGT1A4 glucuronidates the tertiary amines lamotrigine (LTG) and trifluoperazine (TFP). In this study, we sought to elucidate the influence of specific N-terminal histidine and proline residues on UGT enzyme substrate selectivity. The conserved N-terminal domain histidine of UGT1A1, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 was mutated to proline and leucine 34 of UGT2B10 was substituted with histidine, and the capacity of the wild-type and mutant proteins to glucuronidate 4MU, 1NP, LTG, TFP, and naproxen was characterized. Whereas UGT1A1(H39P), UGT1A6(H38P), and UGT1A9(H37P) lacked the ability to metabolize 4MU, 1NP, and naproxen, all glucuronidated LTG. K(m) values for UGT1A1(H39P) and UGT1A9(H37P) were 774 and 3812 microM, respectively, compared with 1579 microM for UGT1A4. UGT1A1(H39P) also glucuronidated TFP with a V(max)/K(m) value comparable to that of UGT1A4. In contrast to the wild-type enzyme, UGT2B10(L34H) glucuronidated 4MU and 1NP with respective K(m) values of 260 and 118 microM. UGT2B7(H35P) lacked activity toward all substrates. The data confirm a pivotal role for an N-terminal domain proline in the glucuronidation of the tertiary amines LTG and TFP by UGT1A subfamily proteins, whereas glucuronidation reactions involving proton abstraction generally, although not invariably, require a histidine at the equivalent position in both UGT1A and UGT2B enzymes.
16702735	Involvement of human blood arylesterases and liver microsomal carboxylesterases in nafamostat hydrolysis.	Metabolism of nafamostat, a clinically used serine protease inhibitor, was investigated with human blood and liver enzyme sources. All the enzyme sources examined (whole blood, erythrocytes, plasma and liver microsomes) showed nafamostat hydrolytic activity. V(max) and K(m) values for the nafamostat hydrolysis in erythrocytes were 278 nmol/min/mL blood fraction and 628 microM; those in plasma were 160 nmol/min/mL blood fraction and 8890 microM, respectively. Human liver microsomes exhibited a V(max) value of 26.9 nmol/min/mg protein and a K(m) value of 1790 microM. Hydrolytic activity of the erythrocytes and plasma was inhibited by 5, 5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid), an arylesterase inhibitor, in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, little or no suppression of these activities was seen with phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP), bis(p-nitrophenyl)phosphate (BNPP), BW284C51 and ethopropazine. The liver microsomal activity was markedly inhibited by PMSF, DFP and BNPP, indicating that carboxylesterase was involved in the nafamostat hydrolysis. Human carboxylesterase 2 expressed in COS-1 cells was capable of hydrolyzing nafamostat at 10 and 100 microM, whereas recombinant carboxylesterase 1 showed significant activity only at a higher substrate concentration (100 microM). The nafamostat hydrolysis in 18 human liver microsomes correlated with aspirin hydrolytic activity specific for carboxylesterase 2 (r=0.815, p<0.01) but not with imidapril hydrolysis catalyzed by carboxylesterase 1 (r=0.156, p=0.54). These results suggest that human arylesterases and carboxylesterase 2 may be predominantly responsible for the metabolism of nafamostat in the blood and liver, respectively.
21856105	Simultaneous quantitation of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa in human plasma by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS: application for a pharmacokinetic study with a levodopa/benserazide formulation.	A sensitive and simple method was developed for the quantitation of levodopa and its metabolite 3-O-methyldopa, in human plasma, after oral administration of tablet formulations containing levodopa (200 mg) and benserazide (50 mg). The analytes were extracted by a protein precipitation procedure, using carbidopa as an internal standard. A mobile phase consisting of 0.2% formic acid and acetonitrile (94:6, v/v) was used and chromatographic separation was achieved using ACE C(18) column (50 mm4.6 mm i.d.; 5 m particle size). Selected reaction monitoring was performed using the fragmentation transitions m/z 198m/z 107, m/z 212m/z 166 and m/z 227m/z 181 for levodopa, 3-O-methyldopa and carbidopa, respectively. Calibration curves were constructed over the range 50.0-6000.0 ng/mL for levodopa and 25.0-4000.0 ng/mL for 3-O-methyldopa. The method shown to be specific, precise, accurate and provided recovery rates higher than 85% for all analytes. No matrix effect was detected in the samples. The validated method was applied in a pharmacokinetic study with a levodopa/benserazide tablet formulation in healthy volunteers.
19117711	Liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry determination of methylphenidate and ritalinic acid in conventional and non-conventional biological matrices.	A procedure based on liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry is described for determination of methylphenidate (MPH) and its principal metabolite ritalinic acid (RA) in plasma, urine, oral fluid and sweat using 3,4-methylendioxypropylamphetamine (MDPA) as internal standard. Aliquots of 100microL biological fluids and sweat patch were initially treated with acetonitrile, centrifuged, and clear supernatants evaporated and redissolved in 10mM ammonium acetate. Chromatography was performed on a reversed-phase column using a gradient of 10mM ammonium acetate and acetonitrile as a mobile phase at a flow rate of 1mL/min. Separated analytes were confirmed and quantified by positive electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and selected ion monitoring acquisition mode. Limits of quantifications were 1ng/mL plasma, 1ng/sweat patch, 0.5ng/mL oral fluid and urine for MHF; 1ng/mL plasma and oral fluid, 1ng/sweat patch, 0.5ng/mL urine for RA using 100microL biological fluids or one sweat-patch per assay. Calibration curves were linear over the calibration ranges for both MPH and RA, with r(2)>0.99. At three concentrations spanning the linear dynamic range of the assay, mean recoveries ranged between 67.9-90.3% for MPH and 36.3-92.4% for RA in the different biological matrices. This method was applied to therapeutic monitoring of MHP and RA in conventional and non-conventional biological matrices from individuals in drug treatment.
21646438	Investigations of hydrazine cleavage of eltrombopag in humans.	After oral administration to humans, eltrombopag undergoes extensive cleavage of its hydrazine linkage to metabolites, which are exclusively eliminated in urine. In vitro, the cleavage pathway was not detected in systems using cytochrome P450 enzymes, renal or hepatic microsomes, or hepatocytes but was readily evident after anaerobic incubation with rodent cecal contents or human fecal homogenate. Antibiotic treatment in vitro and in vivo inhibited eltrombopag cleavage, further indicating that cleavage is via gut microbes. Antibiotic treatment did not alter the systemic exposure of eltrombopag in mice. Oral and intravenous pharmacokinetic characterization in the mice with one of the cleavage products indicated that it was readily absorbed, conjugated, and eliminated in urine, consistent with its fate after oral administration of eltrombopag. Variation in this microbial pathway, for example by antibiotic cotherapy, is unlikely to be clinically significant.
16133532	Lack of effect of ketoconazole-mediated CYP3A inhibition on sorafenib clinical pharmacokinetics.	Sorafenib is a novel, small-molecule anticancer compound that inhibits tumor cell proliferation by targeting Raf in the Raf/MEK/ERK signalling pathway, and inhibits angiogenesis by targeting tyrosine kinases such as vascular-endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR). In vitro microsomal data indicate that sorafenib is metabolized by two pathways: phase I oxidation mediated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4; and phase II conjugation mediated by UGT1A9. Approximately 50% of an orally administered dose is recovered as unchanged drug in the feces, due to either biliary excretion or lack of absorption. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of CYP3A inhibition by ketoconazole on sorafenib pharmacokinetics. This was an open-label, non-randomized, 2-period, one-way crossover study in sixteen healthy male subjects. A single 50 mg dose of sorafenib was administered alone (period 1) and in combination with ketoconazole 400 mg once daily (period 2) (ketoconazole was given for 7 days, and a single 50 mg sorafenib dose was administered concomitantly on day 4). No clinically relevant change in pharmacokinetics of sorafenib and no clinically relevant adverse events or laboratory abnormalities were observed in this study upon co-administration of the two drugs. Plasma concentrations of the main CYP3A4 generated metabolite, sorafenib N-oxide, decreased considerably upon ketoconazole co-administration. This effect is in accordance with the in vitro finding that CYP3A4 is the primary enzyme for sorafenib N-oxide formation. Further, these data indicate that blocking sorafenib metabolism by the CYP3A4 pathway will not lead to an increase in sorafenib exposure. This is consistent with data from a clinical mass-balance study that showed 15% of the administered dose was eliminated by glucuronidation, compared to less than 5% eliminated as oxidative metabolites. Since there was no increase in sorafenib exposure following concomitant administration of the highly potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole with low dose sorafenib, it is postulated that higher therapeutic doses of sorafenib may be safely co-administered with ketoconazole, as well as with other inhibitors of CYP3A.
12814972	In vitro metabolism of midazolam, triazolam, nifedipine, and testosterone by human liver microsomes and recombinant cytochromes p450: role of cyp3a4 and cyp3a5.	Midazolam, triazolam (TRZ), testosterone, and nifedipine have all been widely used as probes for in vitro metabolism of CYP3A. We used these four substrates to assess the contributions of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 to in vitro biotransformation in human liver microsomes (HLMs) and in recombinant enzymes. Recombinant CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 (rCYP3A4 and rCYP3A5) both produced 1-OH and 4-OH metabolites from midazolam and triazolam, 6 beta-hydroxytestosterone from testosterone, and oxidized nifedipine from nifedipine. Overall, the metabolic activity of CYP3A5 was less than that of CYP3A4. Ketoconazole potently inhibited midazolam, triazolam, testosterone, and nifedipine metabolite formation in HLMs and in rCYP3A4. The inhibitory potency of ketoconazole in rCYP3A5 was about 5- to 19-fold less than rCYP3A4 for all four substrates. In testosterone interaction studies, testosterone inhibited 1-OH-TRZ formation, but significantly activated 4-OH-TRZ formation in HLMs and rCYP3A4 but not in rCYP3A5. Oxidized nifedipine formation was inhibited by testosterone in rCYP3A4. However, in rCYP3A5, testosterone slightly activated oxidized nifedipine formation at lower concentrations, followed by inhibition. Thus, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 both contribute to midazolam, triazolam, testosterone, and nifedipine biotransformation in HLMs, with CYP3A5 being metabolically less active than CYP3A4 in general. Because the inhibitory potency of ketoconazole in rCYP3A5 is substantially less than in rCYP3A4 and HLMs, CYP3A5 is probably less important than CYP3A4 in drug-drug interactions involving ketoconazole and CYP3A substrates.
15530130	Reduction of saquinavir exposure by coadministration of loperamide: a two-way pharmacokinetic interaction.	To assess any pharmacokinetic interactions between loperamide and saquinavir. Double-blind, double-dummy, randomised, placebo-controlled, three-way crossover trial. Twelve healthy male and female volunteers, aged 24-46 years. Saquinavir and loperamide pharmacokinetics were determined over a 72-hour period after single dose administration of saquinavir 600mg and/or loperamide 16mg. Plasma and urine concentrations of loperamide, its metabolites, and saquinavir were analysed using a single liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method for all compounds. Saquinavir exposure was reduced by 54% when given with loperamide (median area under the concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [range], 1189 [243-2113] vs 550 [234-1468] pmol . h/mL; p = 0.016) with unchanged renal clearance. In contrast, loperamide concentrations increased and desmethylloperamide concentrations decreased during saquinavir coadministration, resulting in a reduced metabolic clearance of loperamide (median [range], 544 [224-1393] vs 443 [238-692] mL/min; p = 0.016). Whereas the effect of saquinavir on loperamide disposition is unlikely to be of clinical relevance, the reduced drug exposure of saquinavir when loperamide is coadministered is worrisome because a relationship between protease inhibitor drug exposure and antiviral response has been reported. Patients receiving saquinavir monotherapy should be advised not to combine these drugs, especially for prolonged periods of time because a reduction in therapeutic efficacy may result.
2026700	Urinary metabolites of cannabidiol in dog, rat and man and their identification by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Urinary metabolites of cannabidiol (CBD), a non-psychoactive cannabinoid of potential therapeutic interest, were extracted from dog, rat and human urine, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9]TMS, methyl ester-TMS and methyloxime-TMS derivatives. Fragmentation of the metabolites under electron-impact gave structurally informative fragment ions; computer-generated single-ion plots of these diagnostic ions were used extensively to aid metabolite identification. Over fifty metabolites were identified with considerable species variation. CBD was excreted in substantial concentration in human urine, both in the free state and as its glucuronide. In dog, unusual glucoside conjugates of three metabolites (4"- and 5"-hydroxy- and 6-oxo-CBD), not excreted in the unconjugated state, were found as the major metabolites at early times after drug administration. Other metabolites in all three species were mainly acids. Side-chain hydroxylated derivatives of CBD-7-oic acid were particularly abundant in human urine but much less so in dog. In the latter species the major oxidized metabolites were the products of beta-oxidation with further hydroxylation at C-6. A related, but undefined pathway resulted in loss of three carbon atoms from the side-chain of CBD in man with production of 2"-hydroxy-tris,nor-CBD-7-oic acid. Metabolism by the epoxide-diol pathway, resulting in dihydro-diol formation from the delta-8 double bond, gave metabolites in both dog and human urine. It was concluded that CBD could be used as a probe of the mechanism of several types of biotransformation; particularly those related to carboxylic acid metabolism as intermediates of the type not usually seen with endogenous compounds were excreted in substantial concentration.
21216137	Effect of omeprazole on the pharmacokinetics and toxicities of irinotecan in cancer patients: a prospective cross-over drug-drug interaction study.	Omeprazole is one of the most prescribed medications worldwide and within the class of proton pump inhibitors, it is most frequently associated with drug interactions. In vitro studies have shown that omeprazole can alter the function of metabolic enzymes and transporters that are involved in the metabolism of irinotecan, such as uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase subfamily 1A1 (UGT1A1), cytochrome P-450 enzymes subfamily 3A (CYP3A) and ATP-binding cassette drug-transporter G2 (ABCG2). In this open-label cross-over study we investigated the effects of omeprazole on the pharmacokinetics and toxicities of irinotecan. Fourteen patients were treated with single agent irinotecan (600mg i.v., 90min) followed 3weeks later by a second cycle with concurrent use of omeprazole 40mg once daily, which was started 2weeks prior to the second cycle. Plasma samples were obtained up to 55h after infusion and analysed for irinotecan and its metabolites 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycampothecin (SN-38), SN-38-glucuronide (SN-38G), 7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-amino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (NPC) and 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (APC) by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Non-compartmental modelling was performed. Toxicities were monitored during both cycles. Paired statistical tests were performed with SPSS. The exposure to irinotecan and its metabolites was not significantly different between both cycles. Neither were there significant differences in the absolute nadir and percentage decrease of WBC and ANC, nor on the incidence and severity of neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting when irinotecan was combined with omeprazole. Omeprazole 40mg did not alter the pharmacokinetics and toxicities of irinotecan. This widely used drug can, therefore, be safely administered during a 3-weekly single agent irinotecan schedule.
21882862	Analysis of hemoglobin adducts from acrylamide, glycidamide, and ethylene oxide in paired mother/cord blood samples from Denmark.	The knowledge about fetal exposure to acrylamide/glycidamide from the maternal exposure through food is limited. Acrylamide, glycidamide, and ethylene oxide are electrophiles and form adducts with hemoglobin (Hb), which could be used for in vivo dose measurement. In this study, a method for analysis of Hb adducts by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, the adduct FIRE procedure, was applied to measurements of adducts from these compounds in maternal blood samples (n = 87) and umbilical cord blood samples (n = 219). The adduct levels from the three compounds, acrylamide, glycidamide, and ethylene oxide, were increased in tobacco smokers. Highly significant correlations were found between cord and maternal blood with regard to measured adduct levels of the three compounds. The mean cord/maternal hemoglobin adduct level ratios were 0.48 (range 0.27-0.86) for acrylamide, 0.38 (range 0.20-0.73) for glycidamide, and 0.43 (range 0.17-1.34) for ethylene oxide. In vitro studies with acrylamide and glycidamide showed a lower (0.38-0.48) rate of adduct formation with Hb in cord blood than with Hb in maternal blood, which is compatible with the structural differences in fetal and adult Hb. Together, these results indicate a similar life span of fetal and maternal erythrocytes. The results showed that the in vivo dose in fetal and maternal blood is about the same and that the placenta gives negligible protection of the fetus to exposure from the investigated compounds. A trend of higher levels of the measured adducts in cord blood with gestational age was observed, which may reflect the gestational age-related change of the cord blood Hb composition toward a higher content of adult Hb. The results suggest that the Hb adduct levels measured in cord blood reflect the exposure to the fetus during the third trimester. The evaluation of the new analytical method showed that it is suitable for monitoring of background exposures of the investigated electrophilic compounds in large population studies.
16983601	Inter-species variability of haplamine metabolism and identification of its phase I metabolites from liver microsomes.	Haplamine, a pyranoquinoline alkaloid, was isolated from the genus Haplophyllum. The inter-species variability of haplamine metabolism was determined by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection. Microsomes from the liver of rats, mice, rabbits, guinea-pigs and humans were incubated with haplamine. After incubation, samples were extracted with a mixture of ethyl acetate and isopropyl alcohol (90 : 10; v/v). Haplamine and its metabolites were separated by HPLC using Nucleosil C18 Nautilus (5 microm) connected with a precolumn of the same type. The HPLC mobile phase consisted of water (A) and a mixture of methanol and acetonitrile (85 : 15; v/v) (B) used in a gradient mode (17 to 27 % B for 10 min, 27 to 90 % B for 37 min, 90 to 17 % B for 3 min, and finally 17 % B for 3 min) at 1 mL/min. Quantitative and qualitative results showed significant inter-species differences in haplamine metabolism. Qualitative similarities were found between guinea-pigs, rabbits, and humans. The metabolites were isolated by HPLC and identified by GC/MS after silylation. The phase I metabolites identified in human liver microsomes were TRANS/CIS-3,4-dihydroxy-9-O-desmethylhaplamine, TRANS/CIS-3,4-dihydroxyhaplamine and 9-O-desmethylhaplamine.
15592332	Bergamottin contribution to the grapefruit juice-felodipine interaction and disposition in humans.	Our objectives were to evaluate the contribution of bergamottin to the grapefruit juice-felodipine interaction and to characterize bergamottin disposition. In this study 250 mL grapefruit juice; 2-, 6-, or 12-mg capsules of bergamottin plus water; or water was administered with 5 mg extended-release felodipine to 11 volunteers in a partially randomized, 5-way crossover study. Plasma concentrations of felodipine, its primary metabolite (dehydrofelodipine), bergamottin, and 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin were determined. Grapefruit juice (containing 1.7 mg bergamottin) increased peak plasma concentration (C max ) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of felodipine by 89% (P < .025) and 54% (P < .025), respectively, compared with water. With 2 mg bergamottin, felodipine C max increased by 33% (P < .05). The increase by bergamottin was markedly variable among individuals (range, -33% to 125%). With 6 mg bergamottin, felodipine C max was enhanced by 35% (P < .025), and with 12 mg bergamottin, felodipine C max increased by 40% (P < .05) and AUC increased by 37% (P < .05) compared with water. Bergamottin measured in plasma after administration of 6 and 12 mg produced C max values of 2.1 and 5.9 ng/mL, respectively, and times to reach C max of 0.8 and 1.1 hours, respectively. The bergamottin metabolite 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin was detected in plasma of some subjects after bergamottin administration. Bergamottin enhanced the oral bioavailability of felodipine and may cause a clinically relevant drug interaction in susceptible individuals. Grapefruit juice-drug interactions likely also involve other furanocoumarins, possibly acting in combination by additive or synergistic mechanisms. Bergamottin has systemic availability and is metabolized in vivo to 6',7'-dihydroxybergamottin.
12548157	High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of the anticancer drug irinotecan (CPT-11) and its active metabolite SN-38 in human plasma.	A rapid, sensitive, and specific high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the simultaneous determination of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its active metabolite SN-38 in human plasma is described. The analytes are quantified as the totals of their carboxylate and lactone form. The sample pretreatment consisted of a simple protein precipitation with acetonitrile-methanol (1:1, v/v), after which CPT-11 and SN-38 were quantitatively converted to their carboxylate form by adding 0.01 mol/L sodium tetraborate (pH, 9). Chromatography was carried out on a Zorbax SB-C18 column with fluorescence detection. The method has been validated, and stability tests under various clinically relevant conditions have been performed. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 5.0 ng/mL for CPT-11 and 0.5 ng/mL for SN-38. Standard concentration ranges were linear between 5 and 1,500 ng/mL for CPT-11 and between 0.5 and 100 ng/mL for SN-38. This assay is simple, rapid, and very useful for therapeutic monitoring of CPT-11 and SN-38.
19502531	Arbaclofen placarbil, a novel R-baclofen prodrug: improved absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination properties compared with R-baclofen.	Baclofen is a racemic GABA(B) receptor agonist that has a number of significant pharmacokinetic limitations, including a narrow window of absorption in the upper small intestine and rapid clearance from the blood. Arbaclofen placarbil is a novel transported prodrug of the pharmacologically active R-isomer of baclofen designed to be absorbed throughout the intestine by both passive and active mechanisms via the monocarboxylate type 1 transporter. Arbaclofen placarbil is rapidly converted to R-baclofen in human and animal tissues in vitro. This conversion seems to be primarily catalyzed in human tissues by human carboxylesterase-2, a major carboxylesterase expressed at high levels in various tissues including human intestinal cells. Arbaclofen placarbil was efficiently absorbed and rapidly converted to R-baclofen after oral dosing in rats, dogs, and monkeys. Exposure to R-baclofen was proportional to arbaclofen placarbil dose, whereas exposure to intact prodrug was low. Arbaclofen placarbil demonstrated enhanced colonic absorption, i.e., 5-fold higher R-baclofen exposure in rats and 12-fold higher in monkeys compared with intracolonic administration of R-baclofen. Sustained release formulations of arbaclofen placarbil demonstrated sustained R-baclofen exposure in dogs with bioavailability up to 68%. In clinical use, arbaclofen placarbil may improve the treatment of patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, spasticity, and numerous other conditions by prolonging exposure and decreasing the fluctuations in plasma levels of R-baclofen.
17624023	Characterization of cytochrome P450s mediating ipriflavone metabolism in human liver microsomes.	Ipriflavone, a synthetic flavonoid for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, has been reported to be extensively metabolized in man to seven metabolites (M1-M7). This study was performed to characterize the human liver cytochrome P450s (CYP) responsible for the metabolism of ipriflavone. Hydroxylation at the beta-ring to M3, O-dealkylation to M1 and oxidation at isopropyl group to M4 and M5 are major pathways for ipriflavone metabolism in three different human liver microsome preparations. The specific CYPs responsible for ipriflavone oxidation to the active metabolites, M1, M3, M4 and M5 were identified using a combination of correlation analysis, immuno-inhibition, chemical inhibition in human liver microsomes and metabolism by expressed recombinant CYP enzymes. The inhibitory potencies of ipriflavone and its five metabolites, M1-M5 on seven clinically important CYPs were investigated in human liver microsomes. Our results demonstrate that CYP3A4 plays the major role in O-dealkylation of ipriflavone to M1 and CYP1A2 plays a dominant role in the formation of M3, M4 and M5. Ipriflavone and/or its five metabolites were found to inhibit potently the metabolism of CYPs 1A2, 2C8, 2C9 and 2C19 substrates.
12399159	Reactivity of atropaldehyde, a felbamate metabolite in human liver tissue in vitro.	Antiepileptic therapy with a broad spectrum drug felbamate (FBM) has been limited due to reports of hepatotoxicity and aplastic anemia associated with its use. It was proposed that a bioactivation of FBM leading to formation of alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde, atropaldehyde (ATPAL) could be responsible for toxicities associated with the parent drug. Other members of this class of compounds, acrolein and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), are known for their reactivity and toxicity. It has been proposed that the bioactivation of FBM to ATPAL proceeds though a more stable cyclized product, 4-hydroxy-5-phenyltetrahydro-1,3-oxazin-2-one (CCMF) whose formation has been shown recently. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and glutathione transferase (GST) are detoxifying enzymes and targets for reactive aldehydes. This study examined effects of ATPAL and its precursor, CCMF on ALDH, GST and cell viability in liver, the target tissue for its metabolism and toxicity. A known toxin, HNE, which is also a substrate for ALDH and GST, was used for comparison. Interspecies difference in metabolism of FBM is well documented, therefore, human tissue was deemed most relevant and used for these studies. ATPAL inhibited ALDH and GST activities and led to a loss of hepatocyte viability. Several fold greater concentrations of CCMF were necessary to demonstrate a similar degree of ALDH inhibition or cytotoxicity as observed with ATPAL. This is consistent with CCMF requiring prior conversion to the more proximate toxin, ATPAL. GSH was shown to protect against ALDH inhibition by ATPAL. In this context, ALDH and GST are detoxifying pathways and their inhibition would lead to an accumulation of reactive species from FBM metabolism and/or metabolism of other endogenous or exogenous compounds and predisposing to or causing toxicity. Therefore, mechanisms of reactive aldehydes toxicity could include direct interaction with critical cellular macromolecules or indirect interference with cellular detoxification mechanisms.
23192654	The novel anthracenedione, pixantrone, lacks redox activity and inhibits doxorubicinol formation in human myocardium: insight to explain the cardiac safety of pixantrone in doxorubicin-treated patients.	Cardiotoxicity from the antitumor anthracycline doxorubicin correlates with doxorubicin cardiac levels, redox activation to superoxide anion (O(2)(.-)) and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), and formation of the long-lived secondary alcohol metabolite doxorubicinol. Cardiotoxicity may first manifest during salvage therapy with other drugs, such as the anthracenedione mitoxantrone. Minimal evidence for cardiotoxicity in anthracycline-pretreated patients with refractory-relapsed non-Hodgkin lymphoma was observed with the novel anthracenedione pixantrone. We characterized whether pixantrone and mitoxantrone caused different effects on doxorubicin levels, redox activation, and doxorubicinol formation. Pixantrone and mitoxantrone were probed in a validated ex vivo human myocardial strip model that was either doxorubicin-nave or preliminarily subjected to doxorubicin loading and washouts to mimic doxorubicin treatment and elimination in the clinical setting. In doxorubicin-nave strips, pixantrone showed higher uptake than mitoxantrone; however, neither drug formed O(2)(.-) or H(2)O(2). In doxorubicin-pretreated strips, neither pixantrone nor mitoxantrone altered the distribution and clearance of residual doxorubicin. Mitoxantrone showed an unchanged uptake and lacked effects on doxorubicin levels, but synergized with doxorubicin to form more O(2)(.-) and H(2)O(2), as evidenced by O(2)(.-)-dependent inactivation of mitochondrial aconitase or mitoxantrone oxidation by H(2)O(2)-activated peroxidases. In contrast, pixantrone uptake was reduced by prior doxorubicin exposure; moreover, pixantrone lacked redox synergism with doxorubicin, and formed an N-dealkylated product that inhibited metabolism of residual doxorubicin to doxorubicinol. Redox inactivity and inhibition of doxorubicinol formation correlate with the cardiac safety of pixantrone in doxorubicin-pretreated patients. Redox inactivity in the face of high cardiac uptake suggests that pixantrone might also be safe in doxorubicin-nave patients.
16122284	Lack of interaction of milnacipran with the cytochrome p450 isoenzymes frequently involved in the metabolism of antidepressants.	To compare the pharmacokinetics of milnacipran in extensive metabolisers (EMs) and poor metabolisers (PMs) of sparteine and mephenytoin, and to assess the influence of multiple administrations of milnacipran on the activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes through its own metabolism and through various probes, namely CYP2D6 (sparteine/dextromethorphan), CYP2C19 (mephenytoin), CYP1A2 (caffeine) and CYP3A4 (endogenous 6-beta-hydroxy-cortisol excretion). Twenty-five healthy subjects, 12 EMs for both sparteine/dextromethorphan and mephenytoin, nine EMs for mephenytoin and PMs for sparteine/dextromethorphan (PM(2D6)) and four PMs for mephenytoin and EMs for sparteine/dextromethorphan (PM(2C19)) were administered milnacipran as a single 50 mg capsule on day 1 followed by a 50 mg capsule twice daily for 7 days. The pharmacokinetics of milnacipran and its oxidative metabolites were assessed after the first dose (day 1) and after multiple administration (day 8), and were compared for differences between CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 PMs and EMs. Metabolic tests were performed before (day -2), during (days 1 and 8) and after (day 20) milnacipran administration. Milnacipran steady state was rapidly achieved. Metabolism was limited: approximately 50% unchanged drug, 30% as glucuronide and 20% as oxidative metabolite (mainly F2800 the N-dealkyl metabolite). Milnacipran administration to PM2D6 and PM2C19 subjects did not increase parent drug exposure or decrease metabolite exposure. Milnacipran oxidative metabolism is not mediated through CYP2D6 or CYP2C19 polymorphic pathways nor does it significantly interact with CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 activities. Limited reciprocal pharmacokinetic interaction between milnacipran and CYP isoenzymes would confer flexibility in the therapeutic use of the drug when combined with antidepressants. Drug-drug interaction risk would be low, even if the combined treatments were likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 isoenzyme activities.
14709631	An assessment of udp-glucuronosyltransferase induction using primary human hepatocytes.	Uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) catalyze the glucuronidation of a wide range of xenobiotics and endogenous substrates. However, there is a lack of information concerning the response of human UGTs to inducers, and this observation prompted the current investigation. The glucuronidation of estradiol (3- and 17-positions), naphthol, propofol, and morphine (3- and 6-positions) was assessed against a battery of recombinant human UGTs to determine selective glucuronidation reactions for induction studies. The potential induction of the glucuronidation of estradiol at the 3-position, naphthol, propofol, and morphine at the 3-position was subsequently investigated in cultured primary human hepatocytes against a range of prototypic inducers including dexamethasone, 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC), phenobarbital, rifampicin, and omeprazole. Treatment with 3-MC induced estradiol-3-glucuronidation (up to 2.5-fold) in four of five donors investigated. Statistically significant increases in naphthol glucuronidation (up to 1.7-fold) were observed following treatment with carbamazepine. UGT1A9-mediated propofol glucuronidation was induced by phenobarbital (up to 2.2-fold) and rifampicin (up to 1.7-fold). However, treatment with alpha-naphthoflavone and tangeretin resulted in a decrease in propofol glucuronidation (30% of control values). Statistically significant induction of morphine-3-glucuronidation was observed in at least three donors following treatment with phenobarbital, rifampicin, and carbamazepine. Each UGT isoform investigated displayed a distinct induction profile. Although statistically significant increases in glucuronidation were observed for each reaction studied, the level of induction was less than that observed for CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 and exhibited a large interdonor variability. The clinical relevance of the induction responses obtained in this study is unclear.
15145524	Conjugated linoleic acid modulation of cell membrane in leukemia cells.	This study compared the cellular uptake of pure conjugated linoleic acid isomers (CLA(9c,11t) and CLA(9c,11c)) to linoleic acid (LA) and their effects on polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) synthesis, its metabolism into conjugated long chain fatty acids (FAs) by desaturation and chain-elongation as well as cell proliferation and the associated anticarcinogenic effects on various human leukemia cell lines (K562, REH, CCRF-CEM and U937 cells). Furthermore, selective effects of this individual isomers of CLA on desaturation steps involved in the biosynthesis of PUFAs associated with cell growth were investigated. CLA isomers supplemented in the culture medium was readily incorporated and esterified into phospholipids (PLs) in the four cell lines in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The incorporation of the specific CLA isomers in PLs was similar to LA. All four incubating leukemia cells (40 microM CLA for 48 h) showed very high cellular CLA content in PLs (range: 32-63 g FA/100 g total phospholipid fatty acid) affected by the nature of CLA and the cell type. Supplementation with CLA or LA altered also cell membrane composition by n-6 PUFA synthesis. Accordingly, CLA metabolism interferes with LA metabolism. We were able to show that CLA isomers are converted by the leukemia cells of the same metabolic pathway into conjugated diene fatty acids (CDFAs) as LA into non-conjugated PUFAs. In this view, the gas chromatography-flame ionization detector detection of major CDFAs (CD-18:3, CD-20:2 and CD-20:3) in cell membrane of CLA-treated cultures resulted from successive Delta6-desaturation, elongation and Delta5-desaturation of CLA isomers. However, in comparison to LA, relatively lower amounts of elongation and/or desaturation metabolites were detected for CLA(9c,11t), and only minor amounts or trace CDFAs were observed for CLA(9c,11c). Furthermore, CLA(9c,11t) revealed only very low levels of CD-20:4 FA and no CLA(9c,11c)-conversion could be detected. The metabolization of CLA indicated that CLA(9c,11c)<CLA(9c,11t) were a poorer substrates in compared to LA for the Delta5,6-desaturation/elongation in REH, CCRF-CEM and U937 cells or for the Delta5-desaturation/elongation in the K562 cells. CLA(9c,11t) suppresses Delta6-desaturation in CCRF-CEM, REH, and U937 cells (43.5, 54.6 and 58.8% Delta6-inhibition, respectively) and as well Delta9-desaturation in all four cell lines (Delta9-inhibition; 47.1, 33.9, 29.8 and 25.9% for CCRF-CEM, REH, K562 and U937 cells, respectively). However, CLA(9c,11c) does not inhibit or only slightly affected these desaturations. CLA(9c,11t) isomer was found as an Delta6-desaturase inhibitor with a dose-dependent relationship between inhibition of Delta6-desaturase activity and decreases in cell growth. The growth inhibitory effects of CLA (with 30-120 microM) on leukemia cells were dependent upon the type and concentration of CLA isomers present. CLA-supplemented cells with low concentrations (<60 microM) were not sufficient to impair cell proliferation. Nevertheless, higher amounts of CLAs (>60 microM) had the CLA type dependent antiproliferative effects. Thus, the 9cis,11trans- and the 9cis,11cis-CLA isomers regulate cell growth and survival in different leukemia cell types through their existence alone and/or by their inhibitory effects of desaturase activity.
21104925	HIV protease inhibitors: garlic supplements and first-pass intestinal metabolism impact on the therapeutic efficacy.	The aim of this study was to elucidate the impact of first-pass intestinal metabolism to therapeutic efficacy of antiretrovirals and to ascertain interaction mechanisms between garlic supplements (aged garlic extract) and HIV-protease inhibitors. In vitro permeability through rat jejunum, Caco-2 cell monolayers was determined and CYP3A4 metabolism studies were performed. Saquinavir and darunavir efflux from enterocytes into gastrointestinal lumen significantly increased in the presence of aged garlic extract, whereas their CYP3A4 metabolism was inhibited. In the case of saquinavir a significant increase of its efflux was observed also in the presence of lower ritonavir doses. Because both drugs bound to different binding sites on P-glycoprotein and/or multidrug resistance associated protein 2 than garlic phytochemicals or ritonavir, lower amounts of antiretrovirals were absorbed. The fractions of tested anti-HIV drugs absorbed could decrease significantly during self-medication with garlic supplements or ritonavir dose adjustments. Due to distinct saquinavir and darunavir preferences for binding sites on efflux transporters, the presence of other compounds (garlic phytochemicals, ritonavir), capable of influencing intestinal transporter-enzyme interplay, might lead to pharmacokinetic interactions observed in clinical studies and case reports with anti-HIV drugs.
9210456	Determination of dopaminergic prodrugs by high-performance liquid chromatography followed by post-column ion-pair extraction.	One possibility to optimize the therapeutic application of dopaminergic compounds with a catechol function is the reversible protection of this moiety using a prodrug approach. Important features in this respect are a proper chemical stability in the gastrointestinal tract, an adequate release rate after arrival in the blood stream or the possibility to cross the blood-brain barrier. A HPLC method was developed to measure the hydrolysis of prodrugs of dopamine and epinine directly. The method is based on reversed-phase separation followed by post-column ion-pair extraction with a fluorescent counter-ion. The separation of di-isobutyryl esters of dopamine and epinine is obtained within 10 min while the more hydrophobic dopaminergic esters, di-benzoyl and di-pivaloyl dopamine, are retained for 30 min. The precision of the assay measuring 160 ng dibudop and 100 ng ibopamine was 1.2 and 1.0%, respectively. The detection limit of all prodrugs tested was approximately 10 ng.
16956956	Characterization of human urinary metabolites of the antimalarial piperaquine.	Five metabolites of the antimalarial piperaquine (PQ) (1,3-bis-[4-(7-chloroquinolyl-4)-piperazinyl-1]-propane) have been identified and their molecular structures characterized. After a p.o. dose of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine, urine collected over 16 h from two healthy subjects was analyzed using liquid chromatography (LC)/UV, LC/tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR)/MS, and H NMR. Five different peaks were recognized as possible metabolites [M1, 320 m/z; M2, M3, and M4, 551 m/z (PQ + 16 m/z); and M5, 567 m/z (PQ + 32 m/z)] using LC/MS/MS with gradient elution. The proposed carboxylic M1 has a theoretical monoisotopic molecular mass of 320.1166 m/z, which is in accordance with the FTICR/MS (320.1168 m/z) findings. The LC/MS/MS results also showed a 551 m/z metabolite (M2) with a distinct difference both in polarity and fragmentation pattern compared with PQ, 7-hydroxypiperaquine, and the other 551 m/z metabolites. We suggest that this is caused by N-oxidation of PQ. The results showed two metabolites (M3 and M4) with a molecular ion at 551 m/z and similar fragmentation pattern as both PQ and 7-hydroxypiperaquine; therefore, they are likely to be hydroxylated PQ metabolites. The molecular structures of M1 and M2 were also confirmed using H NMR. Urinary excretion rate in one subject suggested a terminal elimination half-life of about 53 days for M1. Assuming formation rate-limiting kinetics, this would support recent findings that the terminal elimination half-life of PQ has been underestimated previously.
18720456	Screening and characterization of reactive metabolites using glutathione ethyl ester in combination with Q-trap mass spectrometry.	The present study describes a new analytical approach for the detection and characterization of chemically reactive metabolites using glutathione ethyl ester (GSH-EE) as the trapping agent in combination with hybrid triple quadrupole linear ion trap mass spectrometry. Polarity switching was applied between a negative precursor ion (PI) survey scan and the positive enhanced product ion (EPI) scan. The negative PI scan step was carried out monitoring the anion at m/z 300, corresponding to deprotonated gamma-glutamyl-dehydroalanyl-glycine ethyl ester originating from the GSH-EE moiety. Samples resulting from incubations in the presence of GSH-EE were cleaned and concentrated by solid-phase extraction, followed by the PI-EPI analysis. Unambiguous identification of GSH-EE-trapped reactive metabolites was greatly facilitated by the unique survey scan of the anion at m/z 300, which achieved less background interference, in particular, from endogenous glutathione adducts present in human liver microsomes. Further structural characterization was achieved by analyzing positive MS(2) spectra that featured rich fragments without mass cutoff and were acquired in the same liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. The effectiveness and reliability of this approach was evaluated using a number of model compounds in human liver microsomal incubations, including acetaminophen, amodiaquine, carbamazepine, 4-ethylphenol, imipramine and ticlopidine. In addition, iminoquinone reactive metabolites of mianserin were trapped and characterized for the first time using this method. Compared to neutral loss (NL) scanning assays using GSH as the trapping agent, the results have demonstrated superior selectivity, sensitivity, and reliability of this current approach.
23494983	A novel double-tracer technique to characterize absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) of [14C]tofogliflozin after oral administration and concomitant intravenous microdose administration of [13C]tofogliflozin in humans.	Human mass balance studies and the assessment of absolute oral bioavailability (F) are usually assessed in separate studies. Intravenous microdose administration of an isotope tracer concomitant to an unlabeled oral dose is an emerging technique to assess F. We report a novel double-tracer approach implemented for tofogliflozin combining oral administration of a radiolabel tracer with concomitant intravenous administration of a stable isotope tracer. Tofogliflozin is a potent and selective sodium/glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus currently in clinical development. The objectives of the present study were to assess the systemic exposure of major circulating metabolites, excretion balance, F and contribution of renal clearance (CLR) to total clearance (CL) of tofogliflozin in healthy subjects within one study applying a novel double-tracer technique. Six healthy male subjects received 20 mg [(12)C/(14)C]tofogliflozin (3.73 MBq) orally and a concomitant microdose of 0.1 mg [(13)C]tofogliflozin intravenously. Pharmacokinetics of tofogliflozin were determined for the oral and intravenous route; the pharmacokinetics of the metabolites M1 and M5 were determined for the oral route. Quantification of [(12)C]tofogliflozin in plasma and urine and [(13)C]tofogliflozin in plasma was performed by selective LC-MS/MS methods. For the pre-selected metabolites of tofogliflozin, M1 and M5, a validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was applied to plasma and urine samples. Total radioactivity was assessed in plasma, urine and feces. Pharmacokinetic analysis was conducted by non-compartmental methods. The pharmacokinetics of tofogliflozin in healthy subjects were characterized by an F of 97.5  12.3 %, CL of 10.0  1.3 l/h and volume of distribution at steady-state (V(ss)) of 50.6  6.7 l. The main route of elimination of total drug-related material was by excretion into urine (77.0  4.1 % of the dose). The observed CL(R) of 25.7  5.0 ml/min was higher than the product of the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and fraction unbound in plasma (f(u)) (eGFR  f(u) 15 ml/min), indicating the presence of net active tubular secretion in the renal elimination of tofogliflozin. However, CLR contributed only 15.5 % to the CL of tofogliflozin, suggesting that reductions in CLR by renal impairment won't significantly affect systemic exposure to tofogliflozin. Tofogliflozin and its metabolite M1 were the only major circulating entities accounting for 46  8.6 and 50  8.2 %, respectively, of total circulating drug-related material, while the metabolite M5 was a minor circulating metabolite accounting for 3.0  0.3 % of total circulating drug-related material. Both the M1 and M5 metabolites were excreted into urine and the major metabolite M1 did not exhibit active tubular secretion. These results demonstrate the utility of the double-tracer approach to provide essential pharmacokinetic data and excretion data for drug-related material in one study at the same dosing occasion. The data obtained allowed the characterization of absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of tofogliflozin. Tofogliflozin exhibited highly favorable pharmacokinetic properties as demonstrated by its high F, low CL and a low V(ss. The presence of only one major circulating metabolite of tofogliflozin was unambiguously demonstrated. As a drug targeting the kidney, luminal exposure of the kidney is achieved by renal filtration and active tubular secretion.
3765657	The metabolism of 14C-oxcarbazepine in man.	The disposition of the new anti-epileptic agent oxcarbazepine (10,11-dihydro-10-oxo-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide) has been studied in two healthy volunteers following an oral 400 mg dose of 14C-labelled drug. The dose was excreted almost completely in the urine (94.6 and 97.1%) within six days. Faecal excretion amounted to 4.3 and 1.9% of the dose in the two subjects. In the 0-6 days urine samples the biotransformation products have been isolated and identified. 10,11-Dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine (GP 47,779) and its two diastereoisomeric O-glucuronides were found as main metabolites. Taken together, they accounted for 79% of urinary 14C. Unchanged oxcarbazepine, and its sulphate and glucuronide conjugates were isolated in smaller amounts only (13%). Other minor metabolites were the trans- and cis-isomers of 10,11-dihydro-10,11-dihydroxy-carbamazepine (approximately 4%), and a phenolic derivative of GP 47,779 (less than 1%). The biotransformation of oxcarbazepine proceeds mainly by reduction to GP 47,779, and subsequent conjugation with glucuronic acid. Reduction is stereospecific, favouring the S-configuration of GP 47,779. Direct conjugation of oxcarbazepine, in the enol form, is a minor pathway. Oxidative reactions are unimportant.
9234864	Determination of the two major human metabolites of tipredane in human urine by high-performance liquid chromatography with column switching.	An automated method based on column-switching reversed-phase in high-performance liquid chromatography the heart-cutting mode has been developed for the simultaneous determination of the two major human metabolites of tipredane, FPL 66365XX and FPL 66366XX, in human urine. The limit of quantification of the method was 25 ng/ml for both analytes from a urine injection volume of 100 microl. The intra- and inter-assay precision and accuracy were acceptable between 25 and 5000 ng/ml. No significant interferences were observed from either tipredane or a selection of its putative metabolites, or urine constituents in samples from male and female volunteers. Both analytes were found to be stable in human urine when stored at room temperature for two days, at 4 degrees C for six days, in a freezer at or below -20 degrees C for three weeks, and when the urine samples were subjected to three freeze-thaw cycles The method was unusual in that the initial separation was performed on a non-polar, octadecylsilane, column and the final separation on a more polar, trimethylsilane column. These columns were selected only after the investigation of a wide range of reversed-phase columns. The method's success was based on the greatly differing selectivities shown towards the two analytes by the organic modifiers, methanol and acetonitrile, present in the mobile phases used for the extraction and analytical stages
15935804	The use of S-phenylmercapturic acid as a biomarker in molecular epidemiology studies of benzene.	S-Phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA), is a urinary metabolite of benzene, thought to be derived from the condensation product of benzene oxide with glutathione. S-PMA may be determined by GC, HPLC (UV or fluorescence detection), GC-MS, LC-MS/MS or immunoassays. The limit of sensitivities of most of these techniques is 1 microg/l urine or below. It has been suggested that S-PMA may have value as a biomarker for low level human exposure to benzene, in view of the facts that urinary excretion of S-PMA has been found to be related to airborne benzene in occupationally exposed workers, and that only low background levels of S-PMA have been found in control subjects. We have evaluated the use of S-PMA as a biomarker, using a commercially available analytical service, in a multicentre European study of populations exposed to varying levels of benzene, in Italy (Milan, Genoa) and in Bulgaria (Sofia). These were filling station attendants, urban policemen, bus drivers, petrochemical workers and referents (a total of 623 subjects). S-PMA was measured at the end of the work shift by an immunoassay procedure. Urinary benzene (in Milan only) and the benzene metabolite trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA) were measured before and after the work shift. Air-borne benzene was measured as a monitor of exposure. Urinary benzene was the most discriminatory biomarker and showed a relationship with airborne benzene at all levels of exposure studied (including groups exposed to <0.1 ppm benzene), whereas t,t-MA and S-PMA, as determined by immunoassay, were suitable only in the highest exposed workers (petrochemical industry, geometric mean 1765 microg/m3 (0.55 ppm) benzene). All three biomarkers were positively correlated with smoking as measured by urinary cotinine).
15675509	Simultaneous chiral analysis of methamphetamine and related compounds by capillary electrophoresis/mass spectrometry using anionic cyclodextrin.	A capillary electrophoresis/mass spectrometry method for the simultaneous chiral analysis of enantiomers of methamphetamine (MA), amphetamine (AP), dimethylamphetamine (DMA), ephedrine (EP), norephedrine (NE) and methylephedrine (ME) in urine has been developed. The background electrolyte was 1 M formic acid (pH 1.7). Using 0.85 mM heptakis(2,6-diacethyl-6-sulfato)-beta-cyclodextrin as the chiral selector, the 12 enantiomers were completely separated within 25 min. The detection limits were 0.01 microg mL(-1) for the enantiomers of MA, AP, DMA, EP and ME, and 0.02 microg mL(-1) for the enantiomers of NE using selected ion monitoring. The reproducibilities of within-run (n = 4) for the migration times and peak areas of the standard mixture were under 0.58% and 7.83%, respectively. The calibration curves of the peak areas of the 12 enantiomers were linear in the range of 0.05 - 10 microg mL(-1). This method was applicable to the analysis of urine samples.
11706375	Identification of hydroxylated PCB metabolites and other phenolic halogenated pollutants in human blood plasma.	A growing number of studies have reported phenolic halogenated compounds (PHCs) that are retained in the blood of humans and wildlife. These PHCs may be industrial chemicals; metabolites thereof, as in the case with polychlorobiphenylols (OH-PCBs); or of natural origin. The present study was aimed to identify hitherto unknown PHCs in human plasma with chemical structures that are consistent to PHCs known to possess endocrine-disrupting activity. For this purpose, samples of blood plasma from 10 randomly selected male blood donors from Sweden were pooled and analyzed by GC/ECD and GC/MS. Brominated, bromochlorinated, and chlorinated methyl derivatives of phenols and OH-PCBs were synthesized to be used as authentic reference standards. More than 100 PHCs were indicated in the plasma, and among those a total of 9 monocyclic brominated or chlorinated phenol-, guaiacol-, and/or catechol-type compounds were identified as their methylated derivatives. The two major compounds were 2,4,6-tribromophenol and pentachlorophenol. Thirty-eight OH-PCB congeners were structurally identified on two GC columns of different polarity. The origin of the OH-PCB metabolites in the context of their parent PCB congeners are suggested. Other PHCs identified in the male plasma were Triclosan (5-chloro-2-[2,4-dichlorophenoxy] phenol), a common bactericide; 4-hydroxy-heptachlorostyrene, a metabolite of octachlorostyrene; and 3,5-dibromo-2-(2,4-dibromophenoxy)phenol, a natural compound and a potential metabolite of polybrominated diphenyl ethers.
7810171	Metabolism of coumarin and 7-ethoxycoumarin by rat, mouse, guinea pig, cynomolgus monkey and human precision-cut liver slices.	1. The metabolism of 50 microM 7-ethoxycoumarin and 50 microM [3-14C]coumarin has been studied in precision-cut liver slices from the male Sprague-Dawley rat, female DBA/2 mouse, male Dunkin-Hartley guinea pig, male Cynomolgus monkey and man. 2. In liver slices from all five species 7-ethoxycoumarin was metabolized to 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-HC), which was extensively conjugated with D-glucuronic acid and sulphate. In rat and mouse, 7-HC was preferentially conjugated with sulphate, whereas rates of glucuronidation and sulphation were similar in the other three species. 3. [3-14C]coumarin was metabolized by liver slices from all five species to various polar products and to metabolite(s) that bound covalently to liver slice proteins. In Cynomolgus monkey and both human subjects studied, 7-HC was the major metabolite that was conjugated with D-glucuronic acid and sulphate, whereas in rat the major metabolites were products of the 3-hydroxylation pathway and unknown metabolites. Major metabolites in mouse liver slices were 7-HC, 3-hydroxylation pathway products and unknown metabolites, and in guinea pig liver slices, 7-HC and unknown metabolites. 4. The metabolism of 7-ethoxycoumarin to free and conjugated 7-HC and [3-14C]coumarin to total polar products was greater in liver slices from mouse and Cynomolgus monkey than the other three species. 5. With liver slices from all five species there appeared to be little difference in the extent of metabolism of 7-ethoxycoumarin and [3-14C]coumarin to various products in either a complex tissue culture medium (RPMI 1640 plus foetal calf serum) or a simple balanced salt solution (Earle's balanced salt solution). 6. These results demonstrate that precision-cut liver slices are a valuable in vitro model system for investigating species differences in xenobiotic metabolism. Generally, the observed species differences in coumarin metabolism in vitro agree well with available in vivo data.
16885726	Abuse of nutmeg (Myristica fragrans Houtt.): studies on the metabolism and the toxicologic detection of its ingredients elemicin, myristicin, and safrole in rat and human urine using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.	Seeds of nutmeg are used as spice, but they are also abused because of psychotropic effects described after ingestion of large doses. It was postulated that these effects could be attributable to metabolic formation of amphetamine derivatives from the main nutmeg ingredients elemicin (EL), myristicin (MY), and safrole (SA). In a case of a suspected nutmeg abuse, neither such amphetamine derivatives nor the main nutmeg ingredients could be detected in urine. The metabolites of EL, MY, and SA were identified using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in rat urine and their presence in human urine of the nutmeg abuser was confirmed. The identified metabolites indicated that EL, MY, and SA were once and twice hydroxylated at the side chain. In addition, EL was O-demethylated at 2 positions followed by side chain hydroxylation. MY and SA were demethylenated and subsequently methylated. In the human urine sample, the following metabolites could be identified: O-demethyl elemicin, O-demethyl dihydroxy elemicin, demethylenyl myristicin, dihydroxy myristicin, and demethylenyl safrole. As in the human urine sample, neither amphetamine derivatives nor the main nutmeg ingredients could be detected in the rat urine samples. Finally, toxicologic detection of nutmeg abuse was possible by identification of the described metabolites of the EL, MY, and SA in urine applying the authors' systematic toxicologic analysis procedure using full-scan gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after acid hydrolysis, liquid-liquid extraction of analytes, and microwave-assisted acetylation of extracted analytes.
16500065	Determination and pharmacokinetic study of oxymatrine and its metabolite matrine in human plasma by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	There is little information about the pharmacokinetics of oxymatrine (OMT) and its metabolite matrine (MT) after i.v. administration of OMT in human. Therefore a specific and sensitive liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was established for the determination and pharmacokinetic study of OMT and its metabolite MT in human plasma after i.v. infusion administration of 600 mg of OMT in 100 ml of 5% glucose injection in 0.5 h. The analysis was carried out on a Lichrospher-CN column (250 mmx4.6 mm, i.d., 5 microm, Merck) with mobile phase of methanol-ammonium acetate (20 mmol/l; 85:15, v/v) pumped at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min. The tandem mass detection was made with electrospray ionization in positive ion selected reaction monitoring mode, with argon collision-induced dissociation ion transitions m/z 265.2 to m/z 265.2 for OMT at 25 eV, m/z 249.2 to m/z 249.2 for MT at 25 eV and m/z 340.2 to m/z 324.0 at 35 eV for the internal standard (papaverine), respectively. The assay was validated to be accurate and precise for the analysis in the concentration range of 1.0-40,000 ng/ml for both OMT and MT with the LOD being 0.5 and 0.2 ng/ml, respectively, when 0.25 ml of human plasma sample was processed with papaverine as internal standard. The pharmacokinetic study was made with 10 healthy male Chinese subjects. The plasma concentration time profiles of OMT and MT obtained were best fitted with two-compartment and one-compartment models, respectively. The main pharmacokinetic parameters found for OMT and MT after i.v. infusion were as follows: Cmax (20,519+/-7581) and (247+/-45) ng/ml, Tmax (0.5+/-0.1) and (5.6+/-1.7) h, AUC0-t (20,360+/-5205) and (3817+/-610) ng h/ml, AUC0-infinity (20,436+/-5188) and (3841+/-615) ng h/ml, t1/2 (2.17+/-0.49) and (9.43+/-0.62) h, respectively. The CL/F and Vd/F of OMT were (43.8+/-10.8) l h-1 and (70.1+/-26.6) l, respectively. Therefore only a small amount of OMT was reduced to MT following i.v. administration of OMT judged by the AUCs.
22415931	A novel polymorphic allele of human arylacetamide deacetylase leads to decreased enzyme activity.	Human arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC) is responsible for the hydrolysis of clinically used drugs such as flutamide, phenacetin, and rifamycins. Our recent studies suggested that human AADAC is a relevant enzyme pharmacologically and toxicologically. To date, the genetic polymorphisms that affect enzyme activity in AADAC have been unknown. In this study, we found single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the human AADAC gene in a liver sample that showed remarkably low flutamide hydrolase activity. Among them, g.13651G > A (V281I) and g.14008T > C (X400Q) were nonsynonymous. The latter would be predicted to cause a C-terminal one-amino acid (glutamine) extension. The AADAC*2 allele (g.13651G > A) was found in all populations investigated in this study (European American, African American, Korean, and Japanese), at allelic frequencies of 52.6 to 63.5%, whereas the AADAC*3 allele (g.13651G > A/g.14008T > C) was found in European American (1.3%) and African American (2.0%) samples. COS7 cells expressing AADAC.1 (wild-type) exhibited flutamide, phenacetin, and rifampicin hydrolase activities with intrinsic clearance (CLint) values of 1.31  0.06, 1.00  0.02, and 0.39  0.02 l x min(-1) x unit(-1), respectively. AADAC.2, which is a protein produced from the AADAC*2 allele, showed moderately lower or similar CLint values, compared with AADAC.1, but AADAC.3 showed substantially lower CLint values (flutamide hydrolase, 0.21  0.02 l x min(-1) x unit(-1); phenacetin hydrolase, 0.12  0.00 l x min(-1) x unit(-1); rifampicin hydrolase, 0.03  0.01 l x min(-1) x unit(-1), respectively). Microsomes from a liver sample genotyped as AADAC*3/AADAC*3 showed decreased enzyme activities, compared with those genotyped as AADAC*1/AADAC*1, AADAC*1/AADAC*2, and AADAC*2/AADAC*2. In conclusion, we found an AADAC allele that yielded decreased enzyme activity. This study should provide useful information on interindividual variations in AADAC enzyme activity.
16950596	Effects of steatosis on drug-metabolizing capability of primary human hepatocytes.	The suitability of liver grafts discarded for transplantation because of macrosteatosis for preparing human hepatocyte cultures for in vitro drug metabolism studies has been examined. Lower cell viability and yield of isolation procedure were obtained from fatty livers (>40% steatosis) with respect to normal tissue. Significant reductions in 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation (ECOD) and testosterone oxidations were found in hepatocytes prepared from steatotic livers. The potential impact of lipid accumulation on P450 enzymes was studied in vitro by incubation of cultured hepatocytes with long chain free fatty acids (FFA). Treatment of cells with 0.25-3mM FFA induced dose-dependent accumulation of lipids in the cytosol. Decreased ECOD and testosterone oxidation were found after 14h of exposure to 1mM or 2mM FFA (about 60-70% and 30-60% of control, respectively). The effects of fat-overloading on individual P450s were analyzed both at activity and mRNA level. CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 activities were reduced after hepatocyte incubation with 1mM (to 45-65% of control) or 2mM (to 20-50%) FFA for 14h. Reductions in P450 transcripts were also found in hepatocytes treated with 1mM FFA. Our findings showed a general down-regulation of P450s involved in drug metabolism in fat-overloaded hepatocytes. The results suggest that, despite their reduced P450 function, human hepatocytes obtained from donors with steatosis are metabolically competent and could be used for drug metabolism studies.
9010702	Characterization of the cytochrome P450 involved in side-chain oxidation of cyclophosphamide in humans.	Cyclophosphamide (CP) is an antineoplastic prodrug which requires bioactivation (4-hydroxylation) by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in human liver. In parallel, P450-mediated side-chain oxidation (N-dealkylation) leads to the formation of the non-alkylating dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DCI-CP) and chloroacetaldehyde, the latter being a potential neurotoxic agent. The enzyme responsible for side-chain oxidation has not been identified yet. We therefore used an in vitro approach to characterize the enzyme involved in N-dealkylation of CP. CP was incubated with the microsomal fraction of human liver in the presence of specific inhibitors for some P450 enzymes and in the presence of stable expressed P450 enzymes. Dechloroethylcyclophosphamide was analysed using gas chromatography and nitrogen-phosphorus detection. Formation of DCl-CP increased linearly with substrate concentration over the entire concentration range (20 mumol.l-1 to 36 mmol.l-1). Saturation of the enzyme was not observed. Incubation with stable expressed P450 enzymes and inhibition experiments indicated that CYP3A4 was the major enzyme involved in side-chain oxidation of CP. Our in vitro data indicate that side-chain oxidation of CP occurs in dose-dependent fashion in men with no saturation of this pathway even following dose escalation. Thus enhanced neurotoxicity following CP administration may result in the setting of high-dose chemotherapy. Moreover, we conclude that CP has the potential to interact with other CYP 3A4 substrates.
15832300	Analysis of oxycodol and noroxycodol stereoisomers in biological samples by capillary electrophoresis.	A capillary electrophoresis (CE) method for the separation of the diastereoisomers of 6-oxycodol (6OCOL) and nor-6-oxycodol (N6OCOL), the 6-keto-reduced metabolites of oxycodone (OCOD) and noroxycodone (NOCOD), respectively, is reported and employed to assess the stereoselectivity of these metabolic steps in vivo, in vitro, and in chemical synthesis. CE in an untreated fused-silica capillary with acidic buffers containing 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, randomly sulfated beta-cyclodextrin, or single isomer heptakis(2,3-diacetyl-6-sulfato)-beta-cyclodextrin (HDAS-beta-CD) is shown to permit the simultaneous separation of the stereoisomers of 6OCOL and N6OCOL. A 100 mM phosphate buffer of pH 2.0 containing 2.05% w/v HDAS-beta-CD provides a medium for rapid analysis and unambiguous identification of these stereoisomers in solid-phase extracts of (i) urines stemming from patients under pharmacotherapy with OCOD, (ii) incubations of OCOD and NOCOD with human liver cytosol and the human liver S9 fraction, and (iii) after chemical synthesis from OCOD and NOCOD using NaBH(4). In all cases, alpha-N6OCOL is shown to be the predominant stereoisomer of N6OCOL. For 6OCOL, the same is true for in vitro formation and for chemical synthesis. In urine, however, beta-6OCOL is observed to be excreted in a higher amount than alpha-6OCOL. For the urinary alpha-/beta-isomer ratio of 6OCOL and N6OCOL, there are no differences between the data obtained for nonhydrolyzed and enzymatically hydrolyzed urines. The data document the stereoselectivity of the 6-keto-reduction of OCOD and NOCOD in man.
19956952	DNA incorporation of 6-thioguanine nucleotides during maintenance therapy of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	To explore the DNA incorporation of 6-thioguanine nucleotide levels (DNA-6TGN) during 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) therapy of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and its relation to erythrocyte levels of their metabolites: 6-thioguanine-nucleotides (E-6TGN), methylated metabolites (E-MeMP), Methotrexate polyglutamates (E-MTX), and to thiopurine methyltransferase activity (TPMT). We studied these metabolites in 229 blood samples from 18 children with ALL (N = 16) or NHL (N = 2) on 6MP/Methotrexate maintenance therapy. DNA-6TGN levels were significantly correlated to E-6TGN (r (p) = 0.66, p = 0.003) with a trend to reach a plateau at high E-6TGN levels. To explore the relative DNA incorporation of 6TGN in relation to cytosol 6TGN levels, a DNA-6TGN index was calculated as DNA-6TGN/E-6TGN. The DNA-6TGN index was inversely correlated to E-6TGN (r (p) = -0.58, p = 0.012), which implies that with increasing levels of E-6TGN relatively less 6TGN are incorporated into DNA. E-MeMP levels were correlated to the DNA-TGN index (r (p) = 0.60, p = 0.008), indicating that high levels of MeMP result in enhanced DNA-6TGN incorporation, possibly due to inhibition of purine de novo synthesis, mediated by some of the methylated 6MP metabolites. DNA-6TGN may prove to be a more relevant pharmacokinetic parameter for monitoring 6MP treatment intensity than the previously used erythrocyte 6MP metabolites levels. Prospective clinical trials are needed to evaluate the usefulness of DNA-6TGN for individual dose adjustments.
21198441	An in vitro, high throughput, seven CYP cocktail inhibition assay for the evaluation of new chemical entities using LC-MS/MS.	A validated method for the simultaneous characterization of xenobiotic compound-mediated inhibition of seven major cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in pooled human liver microsomes through the use of specific CYP probe substrates (cocktail assay) with low protein content, and a rapid, three minute LC-MS/MS analytical method is described. The specific CYP substrates used in this cocktail assay included phenacetin (CYP1A2), bupropion (CYP2B6), amodiaquine (CYP2C8), tolbutamide (CYP2C9), S-mephenytoin (CYP2C19), dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), and midazolam (CYP3A4/5). The LC-MS method incorporated the aforementioned seven CYP substrates along with their respective major metabolites, and one internal standard, labetalol. In a cross-validation analysis, the concentrations of each CYP probe substrate in the assay had minimal effect (i.e., inhibition or activation) on the other CYP activities. Furthermore, the assay conditions for the multiple probe substrate, ie., cocktail assay, were validated against the single probe substrate assay using 18 compounds with known CYP inhibition liabilities and 10 proprietary compounds. The inhibitory constant (Ki) determined with this cocktail assay was highly correlated (R(2)  0.77 for each individual probe substrate) with that of the single probe substrate assay for all 27 CYP inhibitors. This seven CYP inhibition cocktail assay has increased the efficiency to assess compounds for inhibition of the major CYP isoforms in a high throughput, drug discovery setting.
19184618	Relative importance of intestinal and hepatic glucuronidation-impact on the prediction of drug clearance.	To assess the extent of intestinal and hepatic glucuronidation in vitro and resulting implications on glucuronidation clearance prediction. Alamethicin activated human intestinal (HIM) and hepatic (HLM) microsomes were used to obtain intrinsic glucuronidation clearance (CL(int,UGT)) for nine drugs using substrate depletion. The in vitro extent of glucuronidation (fm(UGT)) was determined using P450 and UGT cofactors. Utility of hepatic CL(int) for the prediction of in vivo clearance was assessed. fm(UGT) (8-100%) was comparable between HLM and HIM with the exception of troglitazone, where a nine-fold difference was observed (8% and 74%, respectively). Scaled intestinal CL(int,UGT) (per g tissue) was six- and nine-fold higher than hepatic for raloxifene and troglitazone, respectively, and comparable to hepatic for naloxone. The remaining drugs had a higher hepatic than intestinal CL(int,UGT) (average five-fold). For all drugs with P450 clearance, hepatic CL(int,CYP) was higher than intestinal (average 15-fold). Hepatic CL(int,UGT) predicted on average 22% of observed in vivo CL(int); with the exception of raloxifene and troglitazone, where the prediction was only 3%. Intestinal glucuronidation should be incorporated into clearance prediction, especially for compounds metabolised by intestine specific UGTs. Alamethicin activated microsomes are useful for the assessment of intestinal glucuronidation and fm(UGT) in vitro.
15242824	Methadone metabolism by human placenta.	Methadone pharmacotherapy is considered the standard for treatment of the pregnant heroin/opioid addict. One of the factors affecting the transfer kinetics of opioids across human placenta and their levels in the fetal circulation is their metabolism by the tissue. The aim of this investigation is to identify the enzyme(s) responsible for the metabolism of methadone, determine the kinetics of the reaction and the metabolites formed utilizing placental tissue obtained from term healthy pregnancies. Microsomal fractions of trophoblast tissue homogenates had the highest activity in catalyzing the metabolism of methadone. The product formed was identified by HPLC-UV as 2-ethylidine-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine (EDDP). Inhibitors selective for cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes were used to identify the enzyme catalyzing the biotransformation of methadone. Aminoglutethimide and 4-hydroxyandrostenedione inhibited EDDP formation by 88 and 70%, respectively, suggesting that CYP19/aromatase is the enzyme catalyzing the reaction. This was confirmed by the effect of monoclonal antibodies raised against CYP19 that caused an 80% inhibition of the reaction. The apparent K(m) and V(max) values for the CYP19 catalyzed metabolism of methadone to EDDP were 424 +/- 92 microM and 420 +/- 89 pmol(mgprotein)(-1)min(-1), respectively. Kinetic analysis of a cDNA-expressed CYP19 for the metabolism of methadone to EDDP was identical to that by placental microsomes. Taken together, these data indicate that CYP19/aromatase is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of methadone to EDDP in term human placentas obtained from healthy pregnancies.
23146235	A metabolite-profiling approach to assess the uptake and metabolism of phenolic compounds from olive leaves in SKBR3 cells by HPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS.	Olive leaves, an easily available natural low-cost material, constitute a source of extracts with significant antitumor activity that inhibits cell proliferation in several breast-cancer-cell models. In this work, a metabolite-profiling approach has been used to assess the uptake and metabolism of phenolic compounds from an olive-leaf extract in the breast-cancer-cell line SKBR3 to evaluate the compound or compounds responsible for the cytotoxic activity. For this, the extract was firstly characterized quantitatively by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS). Then, SKBR3 cells were incubated with 200 g/mL of the olive-leaf extract at different times (15 min, 1, 2, 24, and 48 h). A metabolite-profiling approach based on HPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS was used to determine the intracellular phenolic compounds, enabling the identification of 16 intact phenolic compounds from the extract and four metabolites derived from these compounds in the cell cytoplasm. The major compounds found within the cells were oleuropein, luteolin-7-O-glucoside and its metabolites luteolin aglycone and methyl-luteolin glucoside, as well as apigenin, and verbascoside. Neither hydroxytyrosol nor any of its metabolites were found within the cells at any incubation time. It is proposed that the major compounds responsible for the cytotoxic activity of the olive-leaf extract in SKBR3 cells are oleuropein and the flavones luteolin and apigenin, since these compounds showed high uptake and their antitumor activity has been previously reported.
17474137	Development and validation of bioanalytical methods for imidafenacin (KRP-197/ONO-8025) and its metabolites in human urine by using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	New bioanalytical methods have been developed for the determination of imidafenacin (KRP-197/ONO-8025, IM), a novel antimuscarinic drug developed for the treatment of overactive bladder, and its metabolites, M-2, M-3, M-4, M-6 and M-8 (method 1), M-5 and M-9 (method 2) in human urine by using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. In each method, the urine sample was extracted by solid-phase extraction, separated on a semi-micro high-performance liquid chromatography column using gradient elution and detected by tandem mass spectrometer with an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization or ionspray interface. Extraction recoveries of IM and metabolites were 81.4% or more. Calibration curves had good linearity in the concentration ranges 0.2-50 ng/mL for IM, M-2, M-3, M-4, M-6 and M-8 (method 1) and 1-250 ng/mL for M-5 and M-9 (method 2), respectively. The accuracy and precision in the intra-day and inter-day reproducibility tests were within +/-17.0 and 16.1% at the lowest concentrations, and within +/-12.8 and 11.1% at higher concentrations, respectively. Using these analytical methods, excretion profiles of IM and its metabolites in human urine were successfully determined after oral administration of IM at the therapeutic dosage of 0.1 mg.
15485720	Hair analysis for fenfluramine and norfenfluramine as biomarkers for N-nitrosofenfluramine ingestion.	In this paper, a high performance liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FL) for the determination of fenfluramine (Fen) and norfenfluramine (Norf) in human hair as biomarker metabolites of N-nitrosofenfluramine (N-Fen) is described. Washed and cut hair segments were extracted by ultrasonication for 1h at room temperature in methanol. The extract was evaporated and applied for derivatization with the fluorescent reagent 4-(4,5-diphenyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)benzoyl chloride (DIB-Cl). An HPLC-FL analysis was performed using an ODS column with mobile phase composition of acetonitrile and water (65:35, v/v) and monitored at 430 nm (excitation 325 nm). The method was sensitive with detection limits of 36 and 16 pg/mg hair for Fen and Norf, respectively. The linearity was assessed in the range 0.036-144 ng/mg for Fen and 0.016-127 ng/mg for Norf with correlation coefficients larger than 0.999. The method was successfully used for the segmental determination of Fen and Norf in hair samples obtained from hospitalized patients diagnosed with hepatotoxicity and suspected to ingest N-Fen. Both Fen and Norf could be detected in these patients' hair samples in the ranges 43-1389 pg/mg for Fen and 18-680 pg/mg for Norf and the results showed that the patients might ingest N-Fen for a period of not less than 5 months. As well, the method was applied for the determination of Fen and Norf in rats that possess pigmented and non-pigmented hair after an intraperitoneal administration of Fen. Both compounds were determined in black as well as in white hair.
9010587	A convenient method to discriminate between cytochrome P450 enzymes and flavin-containing monooxygenases in human liver microsomes.	Liver microsomes are a frequently used probe to investigate the phase I metabolism of xenobiotics in vitro. Structures containing nucleophilic hetero-atoms are possible substrates for cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450) and flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO). Both enzymes are located in the endoplasmatic reticulum of hepatocytes and both need oxygen and NADPH as cofactors. The common method to distinguish between the two enzyme systems is to use the thermal inactivation of FMO and to inhibit P450 completely with carbon monoxide, N-octylamine or N-benzylimidazole. In the literature no indication could be found that the heat inactivation of FMO does not affect any of the human P450 enzymes or that the overall P450 inhibitors inhibit the different human P450 enzymes sufficiently and do not affect the FMO. The effect of N-benzylimidazole and heat inactivation was tested on specific activities of seven P450 enzymes in human liver microsomes, 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A4/5, and 2E1, using methoxyresorufin O-demethylation, coumarin 7-hydroxylation, (S)-warfarin 4-hydroxylation, (S)-(+)-mephenytoin 4-hydroxylation, dextrometorphan O-demethylation, oxidation of denitronifedipine, and chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation respectively. The sulfoxidation of methimazole (MMI) was used as a specific probe for the determination of FMO activity. Methimazole sulfoxidation was compared with the well known assay for FMO metabolism, the formation of N,N-dimethylaniline (DMA) N-oxide, to be confirmed as an exclusively FMO mediated reaction. The participation of P450 and FMO in the sulfoxidation of four sulfur containing peptides, ametryne; terbutryne, prometryne and methiocarb was investigated using human liver microsomes. All four reactions were demonstrated to be catalysed predominantly by cytochrome P450.
15978881	Metabolic activation of the nontricyclic antidepressant trazodone to electrophilic quinone-imine and epoxide intermediates in human liver microsomes and recombinant P4503A4.	Therapy with the antidepressant trazodone has been associated with several cases of idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. While the mechanism of hepatotoxicity remains unknown, it is possible that reactive metabolites of trazodone play a causative role. Studies were initiated to determine whether trazodone undergoes bioactivation in human liver microsomes to electrophilic intermediates. LC/MS/MS analysis of incubations containing trazodone and NADPH-supplemented microsomes or recombinant P4503A4 in the presence of glutathione revealed the formation of conjugates derived from the addition of the sulfydryl nucleophile to mono-hydroxylated- and hydrated-trazodone metabolites. Product ion spectra suggested that mono-hydroxylation and sulfydryl conjugation occurred on the 3-chlorophenyl-ring, whereas hydration and subsequent sulfydryl conjugation had occurred on the triazolopyridinone ring system. These findings are consistent with bioactivation sequences involving: (1) aromatic hydroxylation of the 3-chlorophenyl-ring in trazodone followed by the two-electron oxidation of this metabolite to a reactive quinone-imine intermediate, which reacts with glutathione in a 1,4-Michael fashion and (2) oxidation of the pyridinone ring to an electrophilic epoxide, ring opening of which, by glutathione or water generates the corresponding hydrated-trazodone-thiol conjugate or the stable diol metabolite, respectively. The pathway involving trazodone bioactivation to the quinone-imine has also been observed with many para-hydroxyanilines including the structurally related antidepressant nefazodone. It is proposed that the quinone-imine and/or the epoxide intermediate(s) may represent a rate-limiting step in the initiation of trazodone-mediated hepatotoxicity.
14597126	The toxicity of opiates and their metabolites in HepG2 cells.	The toxicity of codeine (C), codeinone (CO), morphine (M), oxycodone (OC), pholcodine (P) and pholcodine-N-oxide (P-NOX) was assessed in HepG2 cells by determining cell viability via the measurement of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage through the membrane, depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) and measurement of total protein content. Incubation of C, M, OC, P or P-NOX with HepG2 cells resulted in no significant loss of cell viability, depletion of GSH or decreased total protein content. In contrast, with CO there was a marked depletion of GSH with significant differences from control cells (P<0.05) being detected after as little as 5 min. This effect preceded the loss of cell viability and the decrease in total protein content. To identify the cause of GSH depletion during incubations with CO, the incubation solutions were analysed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). Analysis showed that a codeinone-glutathione conjugate (CO-SG) had been formed. This adduct was synthesised and characterised by LC/MS/MS and by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). CO-SG was quantified in the incubation solutions using the synthesised standard substance. Results obtained in this study support the hypothesis that the toxicity of CO may be partly due to GSH depletion. The absence of LDH leakage and GSH depletion in the incubations containing C or OC suggests, that the presence of both a double bond at Delta 7 and an adjoining keto-group in the 6-position are necessary to elicit the toxicity of M analogues with regard to GSH depletion.
11557918	Altered pharmacokinetics of R- and S-acenocoumarol in a subject heterozygous for CYP2C9*3.	Our objective was to study the pharmacokinetics of R - and S -acenocoumarol in a subject who was highly sensitive to the anticoagulant effect of acenocoumarol. The subject was found to be heterozygous for CYP2C9*3. The plasma pharmacokinetics of the acenocoumarol enantiomers was established after an oral dose of 8 mg of racemic acenocoumarol. Urine was collected to establish the formation clearance of the 6- and 7-hydroxy metabolites of R - and S -acenocoumarol. The pharmacokinetics of S -acenocoumarol in this subject differed greatly (oral clearance, 6%-10%; half-life of elimination, 400%-500%) from the values of a [wt/wt] control and from population values. R -acenocoumarol clearance was at the lower level of population values. The apparent formation clearances of the metabolites were low-approximately 10% of control activity for the hydroxylations (6- and 7-) of S -acenocoumarol and for the 7-hydroxylation of R -acenocoumarol. The rate of the 6-hydroxylation of R -acenocoumarol was about 50% of control values. The presence of even one copy of CYP2C9*3 reduces profoundly the metabolic clearance of S -acenocoumarol. As a result the first-pass effect of elimination is abolished and the maintenance time is increased. S -Acenocoumarol, which is normally clinically inactive, will now exert main anticoagulant activity.
20213689	Kinetics of ethanol decay in mouth- and nose-exhaled breath measured on-line by selected ion flow tube mass spectrometry following varying doses of alcohol.	A study has been carried out of the decay of ethanol in mouth-exhaled and nose-exhaled breath of two healthy volunteers following the ingestion of various doses of alcohol at different dilutions in water. Concurrent analyses of sequential single breath exhalations from the two volunteers were carried out using selected ion flow tube mass spectrometry, SIFT-MS, on-line and in real time continuously over some 200 min following each alcohol dose by simply switching sampling between the two volunteers. Thus, the time interval between breath exhalations was only a few minutes, and this results in well-defined decay curves. Inspection of the mouth-exhaled and nose-exhaled breath data shows that mouth contamination of ethanol diminished to insignificant levels after a few minutes. The detailed results of the analyses of nose-exhaled breath show that the peak levels and the decay rates of breath ethanol are dependent on the ethanol dose and the volume of ethanol/water mixture ingested. From these data, both the efficiency of the first-pass metabolism of ethanol and the indications of gastric emptying rates at the various doses and ingested volumes have been obtained for the two volunteers. Additionally and simultaneously, acetaldehyde, acetic acid and acetone were measured in each single breath exhalation. Acetaldehyde, the primary product of ethanol metabolism, is seen to track the breath ethanol. Acetic acid, a possible secondary product of this metabolism, was detected in the exhaled breath, but was shown to largely originate in the oral cavity. Breath acetone was seen to increase over the long period of measurement due to the depletion of nutrients.
17618427	Tolfenamic acid is a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor in vitro but does not interact in vivo: correction for protein binding is needed for data interpretation.	Our aim was to correlate the in vitro and in vivo CYP1A2 inhibition potential of tolfenamic acid, an NSAID highly (99.7%) bound to plasma proteins, to study the significance of protein binding of inhibitor in metabolic drug interactions. The effect of tolfenamic acid on CYP1A2 (phenacetin O-deethylation) was studied using human liver microsomes, with and without albumin (0-10 mg/ml). In a randomized, crossover study, 10 volunteers took 200 mg tolfenamic acid or placebo t.i.d. for 3 days. On day 2, a caffeine test was performed. On day 3, each ingested 4 mg of the CYP1A2 substrate tizanidine. Plasma tizanidine, its metabolites (M) and tolfenamic acid, and pharmacodynamic variables were measured. Tolfenamic acid strongly inhibited phenacetin-O-deethylation in vitro (IC(50) 1.8 microM without albumin). Albumin decreased its inhibitory effect in a concentration-dependent manner; the IC(50) exceeded 100 microM with 10 mg/ml of albumin. Tolfenamic acid had no effect on the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC(0-oo)), peak concentration, time of peak concentration or half-life of tizanidine or M-3; only the AUC(0-oo) of secondary metabolite M-4 was slightly decreased (13%, P = 0.004). The caffeine test and the pharmacodynamic effects of tizanidine were unchanged. Tolfenamic acid potently inhibits CYP1A2 in vitro when studied without albumin, but not in vivo. This apparent discrepancy is due to the high protein binding of tolfenamic acid. To avoid overestimation of the interaction potential, the inhibitory effect of highly albumin-bound compounds should also be studied in vitro with albumin, or their exact unbound plasma concentration should be used in predictions.
20332199	Identification of the human enzymes responsible for the enzymatic hydrolysis of aclidinium bromide.	Aclidinium bromide [LAS34273, 3R-(2-hydroxy-2,2-dithiophen-2-yl-acetoxy)-1-(3-phenoxy-propyl)1-azonia bicycle-[2.2.2]-octane bromide], a novel, long-acting, inhaled muscarinic antagonist for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, has shown rapid hydrolysis in human and animal plasma. This process occurred both nonenzymatically (k(h), 0.0075 min(-1)) and enzymatically. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the in vitro enzymatic hydrolysis of aclidinium in humans. Human butyrylcholinesterase was identified as the most important esterase responsible for the enzymatic hydrolysis of aclidinium from inhibition studies in human plasma with selective paraoxonase, arylesterase, carboxylesterase, acetylcholinesterase, and butyrylcholinesterase chemical inhibitors, as well as from incubations with pure human cholinesterases. Furthermore, neither human cytochrome P450 nor human serum albumin participated in the enzymatic ester cleavage of aclidinium. Butyrylcholinesterase activity in the human lung was lower than that observed in human plasma. Aclidinium was shown to inhibit competitively both human butyrylcholinesterase (K(i), 2.7 microM) and acetylcholinesterase (6.3 microM) but did not have any effect on the activity of other human esterases, as well as its hydrolysis metabolites. These results suggest that the potential for clinical interactions involving human cholinesterases is remote at clinically relevant plasma, which are less than 1 nM.
19082995	CYP2A6 genotypes and coumarin-oxidation phenotypes in a Thai population and their relationship to tobacco smoking.	To investigate the association between polymorphisms in the human CYP2A6 gene, CYP2A6 enzyme activity and the influence of cigarette smoking in a Thai population. Coumarin (5 mg capsule) was administered to 194 healthy Thai subjects. Genetic variation of the CYP2A6 gene was identified using PCR methods. The excreted dose of 7-hydroxycoumarin (as a percentage of the urine concentration) 2 h after administration was calculated as an index of coumarin metabolism. The frequencies of CYP2A6 alleles *1A, *1B, *4C, *7, *8, *9 and *10 were 34.0, 35.3, 9.3, 6.4, 0.5, 12.1 and 2.4%, respectively. Of the 194 subjects tested, the number (percentages) of Thai participants classified as ultra-rapid, extensive, intermediate and poor metabolizers were 8 (4.1%), 159 (82.0%) 22 (11.3%) and five (2.6%), respectively. A relationship between the interindividual differences in coumarin metabolism and genetic polymorphisms of the CYP2A6 gene was observed.
22851617	Assessment of the drug interaction risk for remogliflozin etabonate, a sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor: evidence from in vitro, human mass balance, and ketoconazole interaction studies.	Remogliflozin etabonate is the ester prodrug of remogliflozin, a selective sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor. This work investigated the absorption, metabolism, and excretion of [(14)C]remogliflozin etabonate in humans, as well as the influence of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes on the disposition of remogliflozin etabonate and its metabolites to understand the risks for drug interactions. After a single oral 402  1.0 mg (106  0.3 Ci) dose, [(14)C]remogliflozin etabonate is rapidly absorbed and extensively metabolized. The area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to infinity [AUC((0-))] of plasma radioactivity was approximately 14-fold higher than the sum of the AUC((0-)) of remogliflozin etabonate, remogliflozin, and 5-methyl-4-({4-[(1-methylethyl)oxy]phenyl}methyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-yl--d-glucopyranoside (GSK279782), a pharmacologically active N-dealkylated metabolite. Elimination half-lives of total radioactivity, remogliflozin etabonate, and remogliflozin were 6.57, 0.39, and 1.57 h, respectively. Products of remogliflozin etabonate metabolism are eliminated primarily via renal excretion, with 92.8% of the dose recovered in the urine. Three glucuronide metabolites made up the majority of the radioactivity in plasma and represent 67.1% of the dose in urine, with 5-methyl-1-(1-methylethyl)-4-({4-[(1-methylethyl)oxy]phenyl}methyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-yl--d-glucopyranosiduronic acid (GSK1997711) representing 47.8% of the dose. In vitro studies demonstrated that remogliflozin etabonate and remogliflozin are Pgp substrates, and that CYP3A4 can form GSK279782 directly from remogliflozin. A ketoconazole clinical drug interaction study, along with the human mass balance findings, confirmed that CYP3A4 contributes less than 50% to remogliflozin metabolism, demonstrating that other enzyme pathways (e.g., P450s, UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, and glucosidases) make significant contributions to the drug's clearance. Overall, these studies support a low clinical drug interaction risk for remogliflozin etabonate due to the availability of multiple biotransformation pathways.
20026093	Analysis of hydroquinone and catechol in peripheral blood of benzene-exposed workers.	We have developed a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method for analysis of benzene (BZ) metabolites in human urine and blood. Here we describe peripheral blood concentrations of hydroquinone (HQ(1)) and catechol (CAT(2)) in total, protein-bound, and unbound (free) forms obtained from BZ-exposed factory workers and controls. Total and unbound metabolites were directly measured in independent experiments, while bound forms were calculated as [total]-[unbound]. In this subset of a larger study, breathing zone benzene, toluene, and xylene were measured for the duration of a workshift, and end-shift blood samples taken from 143 subjects and controls. Potential lifestyle and environmental influences were assessed by questionnaire and bioassay, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes NQO1, MPO, CYP2E1, and GSTT1 were also analyzed for potential contribution to differences in blood metabolite concentration. Total CAT, bound CAT, total HQ, and bound HQ correlated well with benzene exposure, while unbound CAT and HQ displayed no correlation. Nearly all of the metabolites found in blood were bound to protein (CAT 96-99+%, HQ 78-92+%), and when the ratio of bound to unbound metabolites were compared in subsets of exposed workers, the increase in blood metabolite concentration was nearly all due to an increase in the protein-bound molecule. These findings suggest that a threshold for conjugation does not exist within the exposure spectrum studied (0.01-78.8 mg/m(3)). This method demonstrates the feasibility of analyzing benzene metabolites in human blood, and should allow for further investigation of the health effects of benzene and its metabolites.
7945454	Catalytic roles of rat and human cytochrome P450 2A enzymes in testosterone 7 alpha- and coumarin 7-hydroxylations.	Differences in the catalytic roles of rat and human cytochrome P450 2A enzymes in testosterone 7 alpha- and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activities were examined. Liver microsomes from 18 human samples catalyzed coumarin 7-hydroxylation at a mean rate of about 60 pmol/min/nmol P450, but did not show any measurable activity for testosterone 7 alpha-hydroxylation. In rats, both activities were found to be developmentally regulated; 3-week-old rats had the highest activities for these two reactions. Anti-P450 2A1 antibodies and methoxsalen, a potent inhibitor of P450 2A-dependent monooxygenase activities in several animal species, inhibited almost completely both testosterone 7 alpha- and coumarin 7-hydroxylations catalyzed by liver microsomes prepared from 3-week-old male rats. Interestingly, although Km values for coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities in liver microsomes from 3-week-old rats were not different from those of adult humans, the Vmax value in rats was only 1/30 of that obtained in 18 human samples. Thus, the present results support the view that marked differences exist in the catalytic roles of rat and human P450 2A enzymes, which, in turn, may sometimes cause species-related differences in susceptibilities toward drug actions and toxicities.
22028316	Human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms involved in haloperidol glucuronidation and quantitative estimation of their contribution.	A major metabolic pathway of haloperidol is glucuronidation catalyzed by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). In this study, we found that two glucuronides were formed by the incubation of haloperidol with human liver microsomes (HLM) and presumed that the major and minor metabolites (>10-fold difference) were O- and N-glucuronide, respectively. The haloperidol N-glucuronidation was catalyzed solely by UGT1A4, whereas the haloperidol O-glucuronidation was catalyzed by UGT1A4, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7. The kinetics of the haloperidol O-glucuronidation in HLM was monophasic with K(m) and V(max) values of 85 M and 3.2 nmol  min  mg, respectively. From the kinetic parameters of the recombinant UGT1A4 (K(m) = 64 M, V(max) = 0.6 nmol  min  mg), UGT1A9 (K(m) = 174 M, V(max) = 2.3 nmol  min  mg), and UGT2B7 (K(m) = 45 M, V(max) = 1.0 nmol  min  mg), we could not estimate which isoform largely contributes to the reaction. Because the haloperidol O-glucuronidation in a panel of 17 HLM was significantly correlated (r = 0.732, p < 0.01) with zidovudine O-glucuronidation, a probe activity of UGT2B7, and the activity in the pooled HLM was prominently inhibited (58% of control) by gemfibrozil, an inhibitor of UGT2B7, we surmised that the reaction would mainly be catalyzed by UGT2B7. We could successfully estimate, using the concept of the relative activity factor, that the contributions of UGT1A4, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 in HLM were approximately 10, 20, and 70%, respectively. The present study provides new insight into haloperidol glucuronidation, concerning the causes of interindividual differences in the efficacy and adverse reactions or drug-drug interactions.
16413247	Interaction of flurbiprofen with cranberry juice, grape juice, tea, and fluconazole: in vitro and clinical studies.	Recent anecdotal, unvalidated case reports have suggested potentiation of warfarin-induced anticoagulation by cranberry juice, possibly through inhibition of human cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9, the enzyme responsible for the clearance of the active S-enantiomer of warfarin. To address this question, the effect of cranberry juice and other beverages on CYP2C9 activity was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. The effects of 4 beverages on CYP2C9 activity were studied in human liver microsomes, by use of flurbiprofen hydroxylation as the index reaction. In a clinical study 14 healthy volunteers received 100 mg flurbiprofen on 5 occasions in a crossover fashion, with at least 1 week separating the 5 trials. Flurbiprofen was preceded in random sequence by the following: (1) cranberry juice placebo (8 oz), (2) cranberry juice (8 oz), (3) brewed tea (8 oz), (4) grape juice (8 oz), and (5) fluconazole, a CYP2C9 inhibitor serving as a positive control, with 8 oz of water. Flubiprofen hydroxylation in vitro was reduced to 11% +/- 8% of control by 2.5% (vol/vol) brewed tea, to 10% +/- 7% of control by grape juice, to 56% +/- 16% of control by cranberry juice, to 85% +/- 5% of control by cranberry juice placebo, and to 21% +/- 6% of control by the index inhibitor sulfaphenazole (2.5 micromol/L) (P <.01 for all comparisons versus control). Flurbiprofen clearance (29-33 mL/min) and elimination half-life (3.3-3.4 hours) did not differ significantly among trials 1, 2, 3, and 4. However, clearance in the fluconazole treatment condition (trial 5) was significantly reduced compared with the placebo control (17 +/- 5 mL/min versus 31 +/- 8 mL/min, P <.05), and the half-life was prolonged (5.3 +/- 1.6 hours versus 3.3 +/- 0.8 hours, P <.05). Formation of 4-hydroxyflurbiprofen was correspondingly reduced by fluconazole (P <.05). Although grape juice and tea impaired CYP2C9 activity in vitro, none of the 3 beverages altered CYP2C9-mediated clearance of flurbiprofen in humans, making a pharmacokinetic interaction with warfarin highly unlikely.
1683073	Pharmacokinetics and biotransformation of the anxiolytic abecarnil in healthy volunteers.	1. The pharmacokinetics of abecarnil were studied in eight healthy male volunteers using 14C-abecarnil and an h.p.l.c. method for determination of unchanged drug. 2. Abecarnil was rapidly and nearly completely absorbed after an oral dose of 10 mg; bioavailability was 40%. Plasma levels of the unchanged drug declined with a terminal half-life of 4 h. The total clearance of abecarnil was 11 ml/min per kg. 14C-Abecarnil was excreted rapidly and completely. The main route of elimination was in the faeces. 3. Abecarnil was extensively metabolized resulting in ether cleavage at position 6 with subsequent glucuronidation or sulphation and, to a minor extent, in ester cleavage.
15257064	Steady-state pharmacokinetics of a new antipsychotic agent perospirone and its active metabolite, and its relationship with prolactin response.	The authors investigated steady-state pharmacokinetics of perospirone and its active metabolite hydroxyperospirone (ID-15036) and its prolactin response in 10 schizophrenic patients receiving 16 mg twice daily. Plasma concentrations of perospirone, hydroxyperospirone, and prolactin were monitored just before and up to 12 hours after the dosing. Thereafter, the dose was decreased to 8 mg twice daily in 8 patients, and drug concentrations were determined. The geometric means of peak concentration (Css(max)), time to Css(max) (tmax), area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 12 hours [AUC (0-12)], and elimination half-life at steady state were 8.8 ng/mL, 0.8 hours, 22.0 ng x h/mL, and 1.9 hours, respectively, for perospirone, and those of Css(max), tmax, and AUC (0-12) for hydroxyperospirone were 29.4 ng/mL, 1.1 hours, and 133.7 ng x h/mL, respectively. There were no differences in dose-normalized Css(max) or AUC (0-12) perospirone and hydroxyperospirone between 16 mg/day and 32 mg/day of perospirone. Changes in prolactin concentration from 1 to 2 hours after the dosing were parallel with drug concentrations, and almost normal ranges of prolactin concentration were observed before the morning dose despite steady state. The current study indicated that perospirone is rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated, which influences the prolactin response. The active metabolite hydroxyperospirone may play an important role in the antipsychotic effect because the plasma concentration of this metabolite is higher than that of the parent compound.
7951142	Involvement of a cytochrome P4502D subfamily in human liver microsomal bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation.	The oxidative metabolism of bunitrolol, an adrenergic beta-receptor antagonist was examined in human liver microsomes fortified with an NADPH-generating system. The microsomal fractions (n = 11) showed bunitrolol 4-hydroxylase activities, which correlated well with CYP2D6 contents (correlation coefficient, r = 0.854), debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase (r = 0.953) and imipramine 2-hydroxylase (r = 0.976) activities. On the other hand, the bunitrolol 4-hydroxylase activity showed relatively poor correlations with CYP3A4 content (r = 0.552) and testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylase activity (r = 0.668). The bunitrolol 4-hydroxylase activity was significantly inhibited by quinidine, a selective inhibitor for CYP2D6. Polyclonal antibodies raised against rat liver microsomal cytochrome P450BTL, which is thought to belong to the CYP2D subfamily, effectively inhibited bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation. In contrast, polyclonal antibodies raised against human liver microsomal CYP3A4 did not show any inhibitory effect on the activity. These results suggest that CYP2D6 is involved in the bunitrolol 4-hydroxylase activity in human liver microsomes.
21473878	Metabolic effects of CYP2A6 and CYP2A13 on 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK)-induced gene mutation--a mammalian cell-based mutagenesis approach.	Both cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) and cytochrome P450 2A13 (CYP2A13) are involved in metabolic activation of tobacco-specific nitrosamines and may play important roles in cigarette smoking-induced lung cancer. Unlike CYP2A6, effects of CYP2A13 on the tobacco-specific nitrosamine-induced mutagenesis in lung cells remain unclear. This study uses a supF mutagenesis assay to examine the relative effects of CYP2A6 and CYP2A13 on metabolic activation of a tobacco-specific nitrosamine, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), and its resulting mutagenesis in human lung cells. A recombinant adenovirus-mediated CYP2A6/CYP2A13 expression system was established to specifically address the relative effects of these two CYPs. Mutagenesis results revealed that both CYP2A6 and CYP2A13 significantly enhanced the NNK-induced supF mutation and that the mutagenic effect of CYP2A13 was markedly higher than that of CYP2A6. Analysis of NNK metabolism indicated that 70% of NNK was detoxified to 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL), either with or without CYP2A6/CYP2A13 expression. Both CYP2A6 and CYP2A13 significantly enhanced the -hydroxylation of NNK; and the -hydroxylation activity of CYP2A13 was significantly higher than that of CYP2A6. Analysis of the NNK-related DNA adduct formation indicated that, in the presence of CYP2A13, NNK treatments caused marked increases in O(6)-methylguanine (O(6)-MeG). The present results provide the first direct in vitro evidence demonstrating the predominant roles of CYP2A13 in NNK-induced mutagenesis, possibly via metabolic activation of NNK -hydroxylation.
19684909	An empirical study on the selection of analytes and corresponding cutoffs for immunoassay and GC-MS in a two-step test strategy--buprenorphine example.	(i) Standard solutions of buprenorphine (B) and three metabolites; (ii) immunoassay (IA) reagents designed for the analysis of B and/or its metabolites; and (iii) clinical urine specimens collected from patients (under B-treatment), constitute the B-System for fundamental study of parameters critical to the two-step test strategy, an analytical approach designed for a high-volume testing environment. The cross-reacting characteristics of IA reagents were examined using standard solutions of B and its metabolites. Resulting data were used as the basis for selecting target analytes suitable for the preliminary and the confirmatory test steps. Test data derived from IA and GC-MS analysis of clinical urine specimens (with natural distribution of B and its metabolites) were quantitatively correlated. Correlation parameters were examined: (i) to verify whether the analyte-pair targeted by the IA and GC-MS test steps has been properly selected; and (ii) to decide on appropriate cutoffs for the two test steps. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that the most effective analyte(s) that should be targeted in the GC-MS determination step vary with the IA selected in the preliminary test step. All analytes that generate significant responses to the IA reagent should be targeted in the GC-MS test step.
21443919	Ochratoxin A and its metabolite ochratoxin alpha in urine and assessment of the exposure of inhabitants of Lleida, Spain.	Ochratoxin A (OTA) as well as its metabolite ochratoxin  (OT) were detected in human urine in order to assess the exposure to OTA of a group of 72 adult inhabitants of the city of Lleida (Spain). Urine samples were enzymatically treated; OTA and OT were separated by liquid-liquid extraction, and detected by HPLC-fluorescence. Exposure to OTA was also evaluated by the estimation of its daily intake from food contamination data from the literature and from food consumption data provided by the participants, who filled in a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and a three-day food consumption record (3DR). OTA occurrence (12.5%, limit of detection=0.034 ng/mL) was lower than OT occurrence (61.1%, limit of detection=0.023 ng/mL). The range of concentrations was 0.057-0.562 ng/mL and 0.056-2.894 ng/mL for OTA and for OT, respectively. It could be observed for positive samples that the FFQ data were related to the OTA concentration in urine, whereas the 3DR data were related to the OT levels in urine. The OTA estimated daily intake of the participants was lower than 30% of the latest provisional tolerable daily intake of 14 ng/kg body weight/day in the worst cases of exposure.
15618727	Substrate dependent inhibition profiles of fourteen drugs on CYP3A4 activity measured by a high throughput LCMS/MS method with four probe drugs, midazolam, testosterone, nifedipine and terfenadine.	The CYP3A4 enzyme is known for its atypical inhibition kinetics; ligand inhibition can differ depending upon the probe drug used. A high throughput-LCMS/MS CYP3A4 inhibition assay with four substrate drugs was developed to minimize the potential oversight of CYP3A4 inhibition. The assay uses a 96-well format, human liver microsomes, and four CYP3A4 substrate drugs, midazolam, testosterone, nifedipine and terfenadine. After incubation of the individual substrate with human liver microsomes, the reaction is stopped by solid phase extraction and the four probe metabolites produced are pooled and measured by LCMS/MS with multiple-ion-monitoring mode. Using this assay, the IC(50) values of fourteen compounds recognized as substrates/inhibitors of CYP3A4, were measured for the CYP3A4 catalyzed-metabolism of probe drugs. IC(50) values were also obtained for the common set of compounds by the microtiter plate fluorescent assays with cDNA-expressed CYP3A4. Comparison of the results from the two methods suggests that decision making should be cautiously executed to predict drug interaction potential caused by inhibition of CYP3A4 considering the gap between the two assays and various other factors.
17941060	Identification and human pharmacokinetics of dihydroergotoxine metabolites in man: preliminary results.	Dihydroergotoxine is a mixture of semi-synthetic ergot alkaloids mainly used for age-related cognitive impairment. In this study, dihydroergotoxine (30 microM) was added to incubates of rat and bovine liver microsomes, and the resulting major metabolites were identified as hydroxy-dihydroergocornine, hydroxy-dihydroergocryptine and hydroxy-dihydroergocristine on the basis of molecular mass measurements, determined with a time-of-flight mass spectrometer. The relevance of these to humans was then investigated by simultaneously monitoring dihydroergotoxine and its hydroxy-metabolites in human plasma by LC-MS/MS after oral dosing of dihydroergotoxine mesylate (27 mg) to a healthy volunteer (male, age 45, height 1.93 m, weight 103 kg). In this preliminary approach, the peaks (C(max)) of dihydroergocornine, dihydroergocryptine and dihydroergocristine were about 0.04 microg/l. The peaks (C(max)) of their hydroxy-metabolites were 0.98, 0.53 and 0.30 microg/l, respectively. In conclusion, in this preliminary approach it was found that hydroxy-dihydroergocornine, hydroxy-dihydroergocryptine and hydroxy-dihydroergocristine were one order of magnitude higher in concentration than their parents in human plasma.
23111980	Regional gastrointestinal delivery of remogliflozin etabonate in humans.	Remogliflozin etabonate (RE) is the prodrug of remogliflozin (R), an inhibitor of renal glucose transport designed to reduce blood glucose concentrations for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. This open-label, randomized, single-dose, four-way crossover study, (with one add-on arm) in eight healthy men evaluated the regional gastrointestinal absorption of RE, the systemic appearance of the active entity R, and an active metabolite, GSK279782. The InteliSite() Companion Capsule was used to administer a single dose of RE 100 mg to the mid-small intestine or cecum/colon. Oral administration of the IR tablet of RE showed similar bioavailability of R compared with small intestine delivery with both suspension and solution. The lowest bioavailability of remogliflozin was found with large intestine delivery and therefore not a suitable region for prodrug delivery. Although both lower permeability and decreased ester hydrolysis of remogliflozin etabonate in the colon can explain reduced plasma exposures of remogliflozin, the data suggest relatively limited remogliflozin etabonate hydrolysis in the colon and provides evidence for a diminishing gradient of esterase activity from small to large intestine.
17389078	Simultaneous determination of codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and 6-acetylmorphine in urine, serum, plasma, whole blood, and meconium by LC-MS-MS.	A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method for simultaneous analysis of six major opiates in urine, serum, plasma, whole blood, and meconium is described. The six opiates included are codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and 6-acetylmorphine (6-AM). The method was compared to an in-house gas chromatography (GC)-MS method and an LC-MS-MS method performed by another laboratory. The sample preparation time was decreased by eliminating the glucuronide hydrolysis and derivatization required for GC-MS analysis, as well as by adapting the solid-phase extraction to elute directly into autosampler vials. These improvements illustrate the advantages of an LC-MS-MS method over a GC-MS method for opiates. The structural similarity of these six opiates and others in the opiate class causes a high potential for interference and false-positive results. Twelve opiate analogues and metabolites were evaluated for interference. The potential for interference was reduced by altering the MRM transitions chosen for the six opiates. The increased specificity of LC-MS-MS decreased the interference rate in urine to 3.9% compared to 13.6% on the in-house GC-MS method. The rate of positivity for 6-AM in meconium is described for the first time. In urine, 11.0% of morphine positive specimens were also positive for 6-AM compared to 8.3% in serum/plasma and 0.9% in meconium. Although 6-AM is infrequent in meconium, it provides a definitive proof of illegal heroin abuse by the pregnant mother. This method has been routinely used in our laboratory over the last 6 months on more than 1500 patient specimens.
19469472	Dissimilar in vitro and in vivo effects of ellagic acid and its microbiota-derived metabolites, urolithins, on the cytochrome P450 1A1.	This research shows that the dietary polyphenol ellagic acid (EA) and its colonic metabolites, urolithin-A (3,8-dihydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one, Uro-A) and urolithin-B (3-hydroxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one, Uro-B), modulate phase I and phase II detoxifying enzymes in colon cancer Caco-2 cells. EA and the urolithins, at micromolar concentrations achievable in the colon from the diet, induced the expression and activity of CYP1A1 and UGT1A10 and inhibited several sulfotransferases. As a result, the synthesis of glucuronides was favored over sulfated conjugates in the treated cells. In situ exposure to these compounds dissolved in buffer also led to the induction of CYP1A1 in the rat colon. However, in situ exposure to the compounds dissolved in oil or oral supplementation of the single compounds or pomegranate extract (PE) added to the feed failed to induce CYP1A1 in the colon mucosa. These results suggest that EA and urolithins may exert some blocking chemopreventive effects in the colon but that this effect is critically affected by interfering factors, such as the food matrix nature.
21427202	Glucuronidation of anticancer prodrug PR-104A: species differences, identification of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, and implications for therapy.	PR-104, the phosphate ester of a dinitrobenzamide mustard [PR-104A; 2-((2-bromoethyl)-2-{[(2-hydroxyethyl) amino] carbonyl}-4,6-dinitroanilino)ethyl methanesulfonate], is currently in clinical trial as a hypoxia- and aldo-keto reductase 1C3 (AKR1C3)-activated prodrug for cancer therapy. Here, we investigate species (human, dog, rat, mouse) differences in metabolism to the corresponding O-glucuronide, PR-104G, and identify the human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms responsible. After intravenous PR-104, plasma area under the concentration-time curve ratios (PR-104G/PR-104A) decreased in the order of dog (2.3) > human (1.3) > mouse (0.03) > rat (0.005). The kinetics of uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-dependent glucuronidation by liver microsomes in vitro fitted the single-enzyme Michaelis-Menten equation with similar K(m) (150 M) but differing V(max) (472, 88, 37, and 14 nmol/h/mg for dog, human, rat, and mouse, respectively), suggesting that facile glucuronidation is responsible for the anomalously rapid clearance of PR-104A in dogs. In vitro-in vivo extrapolation of PR-104A glucuronidation kinetics is consistent with this also being a major clearance pathway in humans. Recombinant UGT screening identified UGT2B7 as the only commercially available human isoform able to conjugate PR-104A, and UGT2B7 protein concentrations were highly correlated (r = 0.93) with PR-104A glucuronidation by liver microsomes from 24 individuals. The active hydroxylamine metabolite of PR-104A, PR-104H, was also glucuronidated by UGT2B7, although with slightly lower specificity and much lower rates. UGT2B7 mRNA expression was highly variable in human tumor databases. Glucuronidation of PR-104A greatly suppressed nitroreduction by AKR1C3 and NADPH-supplemented anoxic human liver S9 (9000g postmitochondrial supernatant). In conclusion, PR-104A is glucuronidated by UGT2B7 with high specificity and seems to make a major contribution to clearance of PR-104A in humans, but it also has the potential to confer resistance in some human tumors.
17326010	Inhibition of 5alpha-reductase activity in SZ95 sebocytes and HaCaT keratinocytes in vitro.	Inhibition of 5alpha-reductase type 1 has been considered to be a promising target for treatment of androgen-dependent skin disorders, however, currently published clinical results on acne treatment are rather disappointing. In this study, the influence of selective inhibitors of 5alpha-reductase on testosterone metabolism within SZ95 sebocytes and HaCaT keratinocytes IN VITRO was investigated. In both cell types, the isotype 1 inhibitor MK386 completely inhibited the conversion of testosterone to 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone in concentrations higher than 10 (-9) M. Inhibitors of the isotype 2 such as finasteride, dihydrofinasteride, and turosteride, were >100-fold less active, while, as expected, androgen receptor inhibitors did not affect the 5alpha-reductase activity. MK386, but not finasteride, reduced testosterone-stimulated proliferation and slightly reduced the testosterone-induced increase in the amount of SZ95 sebocyte proteins. The androgen receptor inhibitor cyproterone acetate exhibited no effect on testosterone-induced proliferation, but inhibited the 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone-induced sebocyte proliferation. Our experimental findings and the existing clinical results indicate that the inhibition of 5alpha-reductase activity alone may be insufficient to reduce overall sebocyte activity and improve acne lesions.
19536806	Studies on the metabolism of mitragynine, the main alkaloid of the herbal drug Kratom, in rat and human urine using liquid chromatography-linear ion trap mass spectrometry.	Mitragynine (MG) is an indole alkaloid of the Thai medicinal plant Mitragyna speciosa (Kratom in Thai) and reported to have opioid agonistic properties. Because of its stimulant and euphoric effects, Kratom is used as a herbal drug of abuse. The aim of the presented study is to identify the phase I and II metabolites of MG in rat and human urine after solid-phase extraction (SPE) using liquid chromatography-linear ion trap mass spectrometry providing detailed structure information in the MSn mode particularly with high resolution. The seven identified phase I metabolites indicated that MG was metabolized by hydrolysis of the methylester in position 16, O-demethylation of the 9-methoxy group and of the 17-methoxy group, followed, via the intermediate aldehydes, by oxidation to carboxylic acids or reduction to alcohols and combinations of some steps. In rats, four metabolites were additionally conjugated to glucuronides and one to sulfate, but in humans, three metabolites to glucuronides and three to sulfates.
21511419	A study of distribution of ethyl glucuronide in different keratin matrices.	Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a direct metabolite of ethanol, frequently used as a biomarker of alcohol abuse. To this purpose, EtG is preferentially determined in hair samples, using a cut-off value of 30pg/mg to discriminate between social and heavy drinkers, as recently fixed by an international consensus conference. Although this cut-off value is assumed for head hair, alternative matrices, such as pubic, axillary and chest hair, are often analyzed when head hair is not available. Previous studies suggested that determination of EtG in various keratin matrices may lead to different results; growth cycle and rate, urine contamination, distribution of sebum glands and other environmental factors are likely to contribute to these differences. We analyzed more than 2700 samples (head, pubic, chest and axillary hair) to evaluate the inter- and intra-individual distribution of the EtG concentration in the different keratin matrices. The data were interpreted on a statistical basis, on the assumption that large population data-sets will level off the average alcohol consumption of each group. From both inter- and intra-individual distribution data, significant differences were observed in EtG concentrations recorded in head, axillary and pubic hair samples. It is concluded that pubic hair cannot be utilized alternatively to head hair to prove chronic alcohol abuse, nor is axillary hair, since positive and negative biases respectively affect these determinations. In contrast, for chest hair, EtG distributions similar to head hair were found, although the large discrepancy between the examined population dimensions presently prevents any definitive conclusion. Thus, chest hair represents a promising alternative to head hair for EtG determinations, deserving further investigation on samples collected from the same individuals, in order to establish a clear correlation between their respective EtG concentrations.
21826677	In vitro identification of the human cytochrome p450 enzymes involved in the oxidative metabolism of loxapine.	In vitro studies were conducted to identify the hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes responsible for the oxidative metabolism of loxapine to 8-hydroxyloxapine, 7-hydroxyloxapine, N-desmethylloxapine (amoxapine) and loxapine N-oxide. These studies included use of cDNA-expressed enzymes, correlation analysis with 12 phenotyped human liver microsomal samples, and use of selective inhibitors of cytochrome P450s. The resultant data indicated that loxapine was mainly metabolized by human liver microsomes to (i) 8-hydroxyloxapine by CYP1A2, (ii) 7-hydroxyloxapine by CYP2D6, (iii) N-desmethyloxapine by CYP3A4 and (iv) loxapine N-oxide by CYP3A4. The involvement of flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) in the formation of loxapine N-oxide was also observed.
18332082	Identification and characterization of potent CYP2B6 inhibitors in Woohwangcheongsimwon suspension, an herbal preparation used in the treatment and prevention of apoplexy in Korea and China.	Woohwangcheongsimwon is a traditional medicine for treating hypertension, arteriosclerosis, coma, and stroke in China and Korea. To assess potential interactions of herb and drug metabolism, commercially available Woohwangcheongsimwon suspensions were examined for their potential to inhibit the activity of nine human cytochrome P450 enzymes. The Woohwangcheongsimwon suspensions showed strong inhibition of CYP2B6 activity. To identify individual constituents with inhibitory activity, the suspension was partitioned using hexane, ethyl acetate, and dichloromethane, and each fraction was tested for its inhibitory effect on CYP2B6-catalyzed bupropion hydroxylation. The hexane fraction possessed inhibitory activity, and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis identified borneol and isoborneol as major constituents of the hexane fraction. These two terpenoids moderately inhibited CYP2B6-catalyzed bupropion hydroxylase activity in a competitive manner, with K(i) values of 9.5 and 5.9 microM, respectively, as well as efavirenz 8-hydroxylase activity, with K(i) values of 22 and 26 microM, respectively. Additionally, reconstituted mixtures of borneol and isoborneol, at the same concentrations as in the Woohwangcheongsimwon suspension, had comparable potency in inhibiting bupropion hydroxylation. These in vitro data indicate that Woohwangcheongsimwon preparations contain constituents that can potently inhibit the activity of CYP2B6 and suggest that these preparations should be examined for potential pharmacokinetic drug interactions in vivo.
16803661	Quantitative analysis of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in urine using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	Buprenorphine is an opioid analgesic drug that is used as an alternative to methadone to treat heroin addiction. Established methods for the analysis of buprenorphine and its metabolites in urine such as gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) involve complicated sample extraction procedures. The aim of the present study was to develop a sensitive yet straightforward method for the simultaneous analysis of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in urine using liquid chromatography-MS-MS. The method comprised an enzymatic hydrolysis using Patella vulgata b-glucuronidase, followed by centrifugation and direct analysis of the supernatant. The limits of detection and quantitation were < 1 microg/L for buprenorphine and < 1 and 4 microg/L, respectively, for norbuprenorphine. Assay coefficients of variation (CVs) were < 15%, with the exception of concentrations close to the limit of quantitation, where CVs were below 20%. In direct comparison with an established GC-MS protocol, the method showed minimal negative bias (8.7% for buprenorphine and 1.8% for norbuprenorphine) and was less susceptible to sample carryover. The extent of conjugation in unhydrolyzed urine was investigated and found to be highly variable, with proportions of unconjugated buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine of 6.4% [range 0% to 67%; standard deviation (SD) 9.7%] and 34% (range 0% to 100%; SD 23.8%), respectively.
17046338	Simultaneous determination of methadone, buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in biological fluids for therapeutic drug monitoring purposes.	Methadone and buprenorphine are two of the drugs most frequently used for abstinence from illicit opioids and in the treatment of pain. A sensitive and selective high-performance liquid chromatographic method with diode array detection for the simultaneous determination of methadone, buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine has been developed. Separation of the three analytes was obtained by using a reversed-phase column (C8, 250mmx4.6mm i.d., 5microm) and a mobile phase composed of 40% phosphate buffer containing triethylamine, 50% methanol and 10% acetonitrile (final apparent pH 6.0). Loxapine was used as the internal standard. An accurate pre-treatment procedure of biological samples was developed, using solid-phase extraction with C8 cartridges (100mg, 1mL) and needing small amounts of plasma or urine (300microL). The calibration curves were linear over a working range of 10.0-1500.0ng/mL for methadone and of 5.0-500.0ng/mL for buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in both matrices. The limit of quantitation (LOQ) and the limit of detection (LOD) were 1.0 and 0.4ng/mL for methadone and 0.5 and 0.2ng/mL for both buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, respectively. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of plasma and urine samples from patients undergoing treatment with these drugs. Precision and accuracy results were satisfactory and no interference from endogenous or exogenous compounds was found. The method is suitable for the simultaneous determination of methadone and buprenorphine in human plasma and urine for therapeutic drug monitoring purposes.
16356333	Evaluation of buprenorphine CEDIA assay versus GC-MS and ELISA using urine samples from patients in substitution treatment.	As buprenorphine becomes more clinically used in heroin substitution treatment, there is an increasing need for methods suitable for high-volume screening. In this study, a new immunochemical test based on CEDIA technology was evaluated for the use in clinical urine drug testing. The method was compared with an existing ELISA method and a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) method on urine specimens from patients in heroin substitution treatment. The precision of the CEDIA assay was < 9% both within- and between-day at levels at and above the cutoff limit of 5 microg/L. The concordance in qualitative results with an existing ELISA method was 96.8%. The CEDIA measuring range was extended by diluting urine samples 100-fold with saline, and the results agreed well (slope of regression line was 1.09, r(2) = 0.968) with GC-MS. The sensitivity of CEDIA in detecting authentic specimen containing buprenorphine at levels >or= 5 microg/L was 99.5%. Cross-reactivity causing false-positive response was discovered in patients receiving prescribed dihydrocodeine. The urine concentration of total buprenorphine in urine from patients prescribed daily doses between 0.2 and 24 mg ranged from 0.5 to 2900 microg/L. The concentration of the metabolite norbuprenorphine was usually higher, and the median ratio of buprenorphine to norbuprenorphine was 0.23 (95% were below 1). We conclude that the CEDIA assay is suitable for application in high-volume screening of buprenorphine for urine drug testing.
23104316	Simultaneous and sensitive LC-MS/MS determination of tetrahydrocannabinol and metabolites in human plasma.	Cannabis is not only a widely used illicit drug but also a substance which can be used in pharmacological therapy because of its analgesic, antiemetic, and antispasmodic properties. A very rapid and sensitive method for determination of (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the principal active component of cannabis, and two of its phase I metabolites in plasma has been developed and validated. After solid-phase extraction of plasma (0.2 mL), the clean extracts were analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry after a 5-min liquid chromatographic separation. The linear calibration ranges were from 0.05 to 30 ng mL(-1) for THC and 11-nor-(9)-carboxy-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH) and from 0.2 to 30 ng mL(-1) for (9)-(11-OH)-tetrahydrocannabinol (11-OH-THC). Imprecision and inaccuracy were always below 7 and 12 % (expressed as relative standard deviation and relative error), respectively. The method has been successfully applied to determination of the three analytes in plasma obtained from healthy volunteers after oral administration of 20 mg dronabinol.
7194499	Comparative pharmacokinetics of bacampicillin and ampicillin suspensions in infants and children.	The pharmacokinetics of ampicillin and two preparations of bacampicillin, Veegum and microcapsules, were studied in 24 infants and children. For bacampicillin, mean peak concentrations of 7.6 and 14.4 micrograms/ml were found in the sera of fasting patients after administration of 27.8 mg of drug/ml in Veegum and microcapsular suspensions, respectively. Bacampicillin (27.8 mg/kg) and ampicillin (25 mg/kg) were compared in crossover fashion in 21 of the 24 children. Although the dosage of bacampicillin was 25% smaller on an equimolar basis than that of ampicillin, drug concentrations in serum were consistently higher with bacampicillin than with ampicillin; the differences were statistically significant 0.5, 1, and 2 hr after administration. The bioavailability of bacampicillin was two-to threefold greater than that of ampicillin. Urinary concentrations of drug were twofold higher with bacampicillin than with ampicillin. The proportion of saliva samples with detectable antimicrobial activity was similar among patients who received bacampicillin (31%) and those who received ampicillin (25%); however, the mean salivary concentrations 2 and 4 hr after administration of bacampicillin were substantially higher than those after ampicillin.
12782919	Optimizing levodopa pharmacokinetics: intestinal infusion versus oral sustained-release tablets.	Continuous duodenal infusion of carbidopa/levodopa has been shown to control motor fluctuations in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). The authors compared the pharmacokinetics of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa in patients with advanced PD after administration of an oral sustained-release levodopa preparation and after continuous intestinal levodopa infusion with a new formulation as a gel suspension. A randomized crossover trial was carried out in 12 patients. Carbidopa/levodopa was administered as an oral sustained-release tablet and by nasoduodenal continuous infusion for 3-week periods for each treatment. Plasma levodopa concentrations and motor performance were evaluated every 30 minutes during 3 test days of each treatment period. The average intraindividual coefficient of variation for the plasma levodopa concentrations after oral therapy was 34% and was significantly lower (14%, p < 0.01) during continuous infusion. Hourly video evaluations showed a significant increase in ON time during infusion and a significant decrease in OFF time and dyskinesia. Continuous intraduodenal delivery of a new carbidopa/levodopa formulation offers a means for markedly improved control of motor fluctuations in late stages of PD.
16405939	CYP1A2 and NAT2 phenotyping and 3-aminobiphenyl and 4-aminobiphenyl hemoglobin adduct levels in smokers and non-smokers.	Some aromatic amines are considered to be putative bladder carcinogens. Hemoglobin (Hb) adducts of 3-aminobiphenyl (3-ABP) and 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) have been used as biomarkers of exposure to aromatic amines from cigarette smoke. One of the goals of this study was to determine intra- and inter-individual variability in 3-ABP and 4-ABP Hb adducts and to explore the predictability of ABP Hb adduct levels based on caffeine phenotyping. The study was conducted in adult smokers (S, n = 65) and non-smokers (NS, n = 65). The subjects were phenotyped for CYP1A2 and NAT2 using urinary caffeine metabolites. Blood samples were collected twice within 6 weeks and adducts measured by GC/MS. The levels of 4-ABP Hb adducts were significantly (p < 0.0001) greater in S (34.5 +/- 21.06 pg/g Hb) compared to NS (6.3 +/- 3.02 pg/g Hb). The levels of 3-ABP Hb adducts were below the limit of quantification (BLOQ) in most (82%) of the NS and about 10-fold lower in S (3.6 +/- 3.29 pg/g Hb) compared to 4-ABP Hb adducts. No differences were observed in the adduct levels between weeks 1 and 6 in the smokers, suggesting that a single sample would be adequate to monitor cigarette smoke exposure. The regression model developed with CYP1A2, NAT2 phenotype and number of cigarettes smoked (NCIG) accounted for 47% of the variability in 3-ABP adducts, whereas 32% variability in 4-ABP adducts was accounted by CYP1A2 and NCIG. The ratio of 4-ABP Hb adducts in adult S:NS was approximately 5:1, whereas 3-ABP Hb adducts levels were BLOQ in some S, exhibited large interindividual variability ( approximately 91% compared to 57% for 4-ABP Hb) and poor dose response relationship. Therefore, 4-ABP Hb adduct levels may be a more useful biomarker of aminobiphenyl exposure from cigarette smoke.
18998132	Life-threatening toxicities in a patient with UGT1A1*6/*28 and SLCO1B1*15/*15 genotypes after irinotecan-based chemotherapy.	To explore severe toxicities induced by irinotecan-based chemotherapy and UGT1A1*6/*28 and SLCO1B1*15/*15 genotypes. A 66-year-old Japanese male diagnosed with left pharyngeal carcinoma (T2N2bM0, stage IVA) was treated with irinotecan (70 mg/m(2)) on days 1, 8 and 15 in combination with docetaxel (60 mg/m(2)) on day 1 of a 28-day cycle. After the first cycle, he suffered marked toxicities, including grade 4 diarrhea and febrile grade 4 neutropenia. Plasma concentrations of irinotecan, SN-38 and SN-38G were measured, and extensive accumulation of SN-38 was observed. Genotyping of UGT1A1 and OATP1B1 proteins showed UGT1A1*6/*28 and SLCO1B1*15/*15, respectively, which are known to lead to extremely low glucuronidation and transport activities of substrate drugs. The severe toxicities in this patient are attributable to the extensive accumulation of SN-38, which may result from a synergistic or additive effect of low metabolic (UGT1A1*6/*28) and transport (SLCO1B1*15/*15) capabilities.
15716476	Thiamethoxam induced mouse liver tumors and their relevance to humans. Part 2: species differences in response.	Thiamethoxam is a neonicotinoid insecticide that is not a mutagen, but it did cause a significant increase in liver cancer in mice, but not rats, in chronic dietary feeding studies. Previous studies in mice have characterized a carcinogenicity mode of action that involved depletion of plasma cholesterol, cell death, both as single cell necrosis and as apoptosis, and sustained increases in cell replication rates. In a study reported in this article, female rats have been exposed to thiamethoxam in their diet at concentrations of 0, 1000, and 3000 ppm for 50 weeks, a study design directly comparable to the mouse study in which the mode of action changes were characterized. In rats, thiamethoxam had no adverse effects on either the biochemistry or histopathology of the liver at any time point during the study. Cell replication rates were not increased, in fact they were significantly decreased at several time points. The lack of effect on the rat liver is entirely consistent with the lack of liver tumor formation in the two-year cancer bioassay. Comparisons of the metabolism of thiamethoxam in rats and mice have shown that concentrations of the parent chemical were either similar or higher in rat blood than in mouse blood in both single dose and the dietary studies strongly indicating that thiamethoxam itself is unlikely to play a role in the development of liver tumors. In contrast, the concentrations of the two metabolites, CGA265307 and CGA330050, shown to play a role in the development of liver damage in the mouse, were 140- (CGA265307) and 15- (CGA330050) fold lower in rats than in mice following either a single oral dose, or dietary administration of thiamethoxam for up to 50 weeks. Comparisons of the major metabolic pathways of thiamethoxam in vitro using mouse, rat, and human liver fractions have shown that metabolic rates in humans are lower than those in the rat suggesting that thiamethoxam is unlikely to pose a hazard to humans exposed to this chemical at the low concentrations found in the environment or during its use as an insecticide.
15204767	Exhaled ethanol and acetaldehyde in human subjects exposed to low levels of ethanol.	With the increased use of ethanol-blend gasoline as an alternative to gasoline, there is a demand for new data to assess the potential health risk of ethanol exposure. Currently, there is very limited information from the scientific database on the adverse effects of inhaled low doses of ethanol (ETOH). The aim of this study was to determine the concentration of ETOH and acetaldehyde (ACTDH), a toxic metabolite of ETOH, in the alveolar air (AA) of subjects exposed to low ETOH vapor concentrations by inhalation. Five healthy adults (2 women, 3 men), nonsmoking, 25-55 yr of age, were exposed for 6 consecutive hours to 25, 100, or 1000 ppm ETOH and were asked to provide AA samples at various intervals during and after each exposure session, for ETOH and ACTDH measurements. Results showed that the concentrations of ACTDH and ETOH in AA measured after 2 h of exposure at 25 ppm were 0.06 ppm and 7.5 ppm, respectively. Overall, there was a significant correlation between ETOH exposure and ETOH (R(2) =.92, p <.001) and ACTDH (R(2) =.99, p <.001) in AA. The ratios between ACTDH and ETOH in AA after 4 h of exposure to 25.9 ppm, 101.7 ppm, and 990.8 ppm ETOH were 0.005, 0.008, and 0.006, respectively. In conclusion, this study showed that inhalation of ETOH at low concentrations resulted in measurable levels of ACTDH in AA and suggests that ACTDH may be used, with good toxicological relevance, as an indicator of exposure to low levels of ETOH in air.
22362276	Characterization of in vitro metabolic profiles of cinitapride obtained with liver microsomes of humans and various mammal species using UHPLC and chemometric methods for data analysis.	An ultra-high performance liquid chromatographic method has been utilized to obtain metabolic profiles of cinitapride with liver microsomes of humans and various mammal species such as rats, mice, mini pigs, dogs, and monkeys. Metabolites have been generated by incubation of cinitapride in the presence of microsomes using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate as a cofactor. Incubation times from 15 to 60 min have been assayed. Cinitapride and its metabolites have been separated by reversed-phase C(18) mode using ammonium formate aqueous solution (pH 6.5) and acetonitrile as the components of the mobile phase. Concentrations of metabolites in the incubated samples have resulted in an excellent source of multivariate data to be used to extract metabolic information. Statistic parameters and principal component analysis have been used to compare the in vitro metabolism of humans with the other species.
19099236	Simultaneous determination of methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-ethylamphetamine, N,N-dimethylamphetamine, and their metabolites in urine by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry.	A liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous detection and quantification of seven amphetamine derivatives (amphetamine (AP), methamphetamine (MA), 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-amphetamine (MDA), 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methamphetamine (MDMA), 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-ethylamphetamine (MDEA), N,N-dimethylamphetamine (DMA), and N,N-dimethylamphetamine-N-oxide (DMANO)) in human urine. Seven deuterium-labeled compounds were prepared for use as internal standards to quantify the analytes. One milliliter of urine was combined with 1 mL of 0.2 M sodium carbonate buffer solution (pH 9.0) before solid phase extraction (SPE). An Oasis HLB SPE column followed by chromatographic separation on a Capcell Pak C18 MG-II column (150 x 2.0 mm I.D., 5 microm) and electrospray mass spectrometry with multiple reaction monitoring were used for selective and sensitive detection. The use of ammonium formate (5 mM, pH adjusted to 4.0 with formic acid, Solvent A) and acetonitrile (Solvent B) as the mobile phase at a flow rate of 230 microL/min was found to be the most effective for the separation. The linear ranges were 5.0-1000 ng/mL for AP, MDA, MDMA, MDEA, DMA, and DMANO and 10.0-1000 ng/mL for MA, with good correlation coefficients (r2 > 0.996). The intra-day, inter-day, and interperson precisions were within 14.6%, 12.1% and 15.5%, respectively. The intra-day, inter-day, and interperson accuracies were between -11.6 and 9.0%, -7.9 and 2.3%, and -13.2 and 4.3%, respectively. The limits of detection (LODs) for each analytical compound were lower than 1.95 ng/mL. The recovery ranged from 72.3 to 103.3%. The applicability of the developed method was examined by analyzing several urine samples from confirmed drug abusers.
22188410	A comparative in vitro kinetic study of [14C]-eugenol and [14C]-methyleugenol activation and detoxification in human, mouse, and rat liver and lung fractions.	Eugenol is a natural alkenylbenzene compound used in a variety of consumer products. There is limited evidence for the carcinogenicity of eugenol to experimental animals. However, in vitro tests for the genotoxic potential of eugenol have on occasion reported a positive result. In contrast, the structurally related alkenylbenzene methyleugenol is consistently reported as genotoxic and carcinogenic in vitro and in vivo. Metabolism of eugenol and methyleugenol has been documented but comparative kinetics have never been conducted in multiple species. Thus, we decided to investigate the bioactivation and detoxification kinetics of eugenol and methyleugenol in human, rat, and mouse to further assess their differential toxicity. The formation of a 1'-hydroxy proximate carcinogen, and a cytotoxic quinone methide, two key toxic metabolites for alkenylbenzenes, were quantified in hepatic and pulmonary microsomes and S9 fractions. Kinetic constants (app)Km, (app)Vmax, and CLint were measured for these reactions. We report that methyleugenol generates a significant amount of the 1'-hydroxy proximate carcinogen while eugenol glucuronidation prevents the formation of both 1'-hydroxyeugenol and the quinone methide. Comparative kinetics highlighted key metabolic differences between human, mouse, and rat, providing a mechanistic insight into the bioactivation and detoxification of alkenylbenzenes in each species.
22245954	The effect of aprepitant and race on the pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide in breast cancer patients.	The prodrug cyclophosphamide is metabolized by cytochrome P450(CYP)2B6 to the active metabolite, 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (4-OH), and by CYP3A4/5 to toxic chloracetaldehyde and 2-dechloroethylcyclophosphamide (DCE). Since aprepitant is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, the study was designed to determine whether its concurrent use alters the pharmacokinetics (PK) of cyclophosphamide. In addition, we sought to determine the effect of race and pharmacogenomics on cyclophosphamide PK. Eighteen patients with localized breast cancer were randomized in this double-blinded cross-over study to receive aprepitant or placebo in addition to cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m(2) and doxorubicin 60 mg/m(2). Blood samples were collected for both PK analysis of cyclophosphamide and metabolites and pharmacogenomic analysis. Single nucleotide polymorphisms genotyped were CYP3A4*1B, CYP3A5*3, and CYP2B6*6. The geometric mean area under concentration-time curve (AUC(0-t) g/mL h) for cyclophosphamide was 282 following aprepitant and 230 following placebo (ratio 1.23; 90% CI 1.13, 1.33). 4-OH AUC(0-t) (g/mL h) was 6.80 following aprepitant and 6.96 following placebo (ratio 0.98; 90% CI 0.88, 1.08). DCE AUC(0-t) (g/mL h) was 6.76 following aprepitant and 9.37 following placebo (ratio 0.72; 90% CI 0.64, 0.81). Genotype analysis was confounded by race. Race was a significant predictor of DCE lnAUC(0-t) (P = 0.0169) as African Americans had approximately a 2-fold higher DCE AUC than Caucasians. Aprepitant altered the exposure of cyclophosphamide and DCE but not the active 4-OH metabolite, making it unlikely that aprepitant would change the clinical efficacy of cyclophosphamide. African Americans were also found to have altered PK compared with Caucasian patients.
15102873	Pharmacokinetic and safety evaluation of palonosetron, a 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor antagonist, in U.S. and Japanese healthy subjects.	Palonosetron (Aloxi, Onicit) is a selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the prevention of acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. This study was performed to determine the pharmacokinetics and assess the safety and tolerability of intravenous (IV) palonosetron in healthy U.S. and Japanese subjects. Subjects were administered a single IV dose of palonosetron, ranging from 0.3 to 90 microg/kg in either of two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending-dose studies (n = 80 and n = 32, respectively). Serial blood samples were obtained in both studies to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of palonosetron and its N-oxide metabolite, M9. Intravenous palonosetron was well tolerated across a wide range of doses in both studies. The incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) were similar between subjects receiving palonosetron and those receiving placebo, with no dose-dependent incidences. The most frequently reported AEs were headache, transient elevation of liver enzymes, and constipation. Systemic exposure (AUC and C(max)) for palonosetron generally increased with increasing dose. Mean total body clearance, elimination half-life, and apparent volume of distribution ranged from 1.11 to 3.90 mL/min/kg, 33.7 to 54.1 hours, and 3.85 to 12.6 L/kg, respectively, in U.S. subjects and from 2.58 to 3.50 mL/min/kg, 30.8 to 36.8 hours, and 6.96 to 9.85 L/kg, respectively, in Japanese subjects. The pharmacokinetics of palonosetron appeared to be independent of dose, with no dose adjustment required in Japanese subjects. The plasma concentration profile of palonosetron, as represented by a half-life of approximately 40 hours, may provide a clinical advantage over other 5-HT(3) antagonists.
17665182	Gender-associated differences in pharmacokinetics and anti-arrhythmic effects of flecainide in Japanese patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmia.	We examined the effect of gender-associated differences in pharmacokinetics on the anti-arrhythmic effects of flecainide in Japanese patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmia and in healthy subjects. The study population comprised 72 outpatients (52 males and 20 females) treated with oral flecainide for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Serum flecainide concentrations were determined by use of high-performance liquid chromatography. The anti-arrhythmic efficacy of flecainide was assessed for at least 2 months through evaluation of symptomatology, electrocardiograms, and Holter monitoring. Pharmacokinetics of flecainide after a single 50-mg dose was examined in 14 healthy subjects (7 males and 7 females). The daily dose of flecainide did not differ between males and females (2.87 +/- 0.68 versus 2.92 +/- 0.90 mg/kg). The serum flecainide concentration was significantly lower in males than in females (315 +/- 151 versus 408 +/- 184 ng/mL, P < 0.05). Clinically relevant efficacy of flecainide was achieved significantly (P < 0.05) less often in male patients (31 of 52; 60%) than in female patients (19 of 20; 95%). We confirmed that nonrenal clearance of flecainide among healthy subjects was significantly higher in males than in females (0.77 +/- 0.16 versus 0.57 +/- 0.06 L h(-1) kg(-1), P < 0.05). Our results suggest that the anti-arrhythmic efficacy of flecainide differed between males and females because of gender-associated differences in pharmacokinetics.
22879537	Cross-reactivity of tapentadol specimens with DRI methadone enzyme immunoassay.	A substantial incidence of positive methadone screens for pain management urine specimens using a commercial enzyme immunoassay (EIA) was observed in the absence of a methadone prescription, with negative methadone confirmation by ultra-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS-MS). Tapentadol was the only common prescription among the investigated specimens. Tapentadol or one of its three major metabolites was tested at various concentrations (100-200,000 ng/mL) against the DRI EIAs for methadone and methadone metabolite, to evaluate cross-reactivity. Ninety-seven authentic tapentadol urine specimens that produced false-positive methadone EIA results (cutoff = 130 ng/mL) were analyzed for methadone and tapentadol in compound-specific UPLC-MS-MS confirmation tests. Tapentadol, tapentadol glucuronide, tapentadol sulfate and N-desmethyltapentadol exhibited cross-reactivity with the methadone EIA at 6,500 (2.2%), 25,000 (0.6%), 3,000 (4.4%) and 20,000 ng/mL (0.9%), respectively. No cross-reactivity was observed with the methadone metabolite 2-ethylidine-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine EIA. All authentic urine specimens were confirmed to be negative for methadone, but positive for tapentadol and all monitored metabolites. Individual concentrations indicated that separate or combined urinary concentrations of tapentadol and its conjugates may produce false-positive methadone screens through cross-reactivity with the methadone immunoassay. The potential for false-positive results for methadone EIA screening of urine specimens associated with tapentadol prescriptions should be considered when interpreting results.
12433805	Enzyme kinetics for the formation of 3-hydroxyquinine and three new metabolites of quinine in vitro; 3-hydroxylation by CYP3A4 is indeed the major metabolic pathway.	The formation kinetics of 3-hydroxyquinine, 2'-quininone, (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine, and (10R)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine were investigated in human liver microsomes and in human recombinant-expressed CYP3A4. The inhibition profile was studied by the use of different concentrations of ketoconazole, troleandomycin, and fluvoxamine. In addition, formation rates of the metabolites were correlated to different enzyme probe activities of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 in microsomes from 20 human livers. Formation of 3-hydroxyquinine had the highest intrinsic clearance in human liver microsomes (mean +/- S.D.) of 11.0 +/- 4.6 micro l/min/mg. A markedly lower intrinsic clearance, 1.4 +/- 0.7, 0.5 +/- 0.1, and 1.1 +/- 0.2 micro l/min/mg was measured for 2'-quininone, (10R)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine and (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine, respectively. Incubation with human recombinant CYP3A4 resulted in a 20-fold higher intrinsic clearance for 3-hydroxyquinine compared with 2'-quininone formation whereas no other metabolites were detected. The formation rate of 3-hydroxyquinine was completely inhibited by ketoconazole (1 micro M) and troleandomycin (80 micro M). Strong inhibition was observed on the formation of 2'-quininone whereas the formation of (10S)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine was partly inhibited by these two inhibitors. No inhibition on the formation of (10R)-11-dihydroxydihydroquinine was observed. There was a significant correlation between the formation rates of quinine metabolites and activities of the CYP3A4 selected marker probes. This in vitro study demonstrates that 3-hydroxyquinine is the principal metabolite of quinine and CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in this metabolic pathway.
19725593	Population pharmacokinetics of intramuscular paliperidone palmitate in patients with schizophrenia: a novel once-monthly, long-acting formulation of an atypical antipsychotic.	To characterize the population pharmacokinetics of paliperidone after intramuscular administration of its long-acting palmitate ester at various doses and at two different injection sites (deltoid and gluteal muscle). The retrospective analysis included pooled data from 1795 subjects from six phase I trials and five phase II and III trials. A total of 18 530 pharmacokinetic samples with valid concentration timepoints were available for this analysis. Nonlinear mixed-effects modelling of the pooled data was conducted using NONMEM software. The full dataset was divided into an index dataset (model development) and a validation dataset. After validation both the index and validation datasets were combined and the final model was re-run on the full dataset. The concentration-time data for paliperidone following intramuscular administration of its palmitate ester were best fitted to a one-compartment model with first-order elimination. The absorption component of the model allowed a fraction of the dose (f(2)) to enter relatively quickly into the central compartment via a zero-order process. After a lag time, the remaining fraction then entered the systemic circulation via a first-order process. Interindividual variability (IIV) in clearance (CL), central volume of distribution (V(d)) and the absorption rate constant (k(a)) were estimated at a 40%, 69% and 59% coefficient of variation (CV), respectively. The IIV on f(2) for paliperidone absorption via the dual-input process was fitted through logit transformation, and its standard deviation (SD) was 0.064. Similarly, the interoccasion variability (IOV) on CL, V(d) and f(2) was 26% CV, 14% CV and 0.07 SD, respectively. An additive-error model with log-transformed data was used to describe the residual variability (RV), and its SD was 0.22. The final covariate model indicated that the following variables had a significant influence on k(a): sex, age, injection volume (IVOL) and injection site (INJS). Similarly, the following variables had a significant influence on f(2): sex, body mass index (BMI), needle length (NDLL), INJS and IVOL. In addition, CL was related to creatinine clearance (CL(CR)), whereas V(d) was related to BMI and sex. A dual-absorption pharmacokinetic model best described the complex pharmacokinetics of paliperidone after intramuscular administration of its palmitate ester. These results suggest that the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone palmitate are mostly influenced by BMI, CL(CR), INJS, IVOL and NDLL.
19913464	Improved method for identifying and quantifying olive oil phenolic compounds and their metabolites in human plasma by microelution solid-phase extraction plate and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Two methods based on solid-phase extraction (SPE) using traditional cartridges and microelution SPE plates (muSPE) as the sample pre-treatment, and an improved liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) were developed and compared to determine the phenolic compounds in virgin oil olive from plasma samples. The phenolic compounds studied were hydroxytyrosol, tyrosol, homovanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-DHPEA-EDA, p-HPEA-EDA, luteolin, apigenin, pinoresinol and acetoxypinoresinol. Good recoveries were obtained in both methods, and the LOQs and LODs were similar, in the range of low muM. The advantage of muSPE, in comparison with SPE cartridges, was the lack of the evaporation step to pre-concentrate the analytes. The muSPE-UPLC-ESI-MS/MS method developed was then applied to determine the phenolic compounds and their metabolites, in glucuronide, sulphate and methylated forms, in human plasma after the ingestion of virgin olive oil.
11414684	Covalent alteration of the CYP3A4 active site: evidence for multiple substrate binding domains.	The inhibition of CYP3A4-mediated oxidation of triazolam and testosterone was assessed in the presence of a selection of known CYP3A4 substrates and inhibitors. Under experimental conditions where the Michaelis-Menten model predicts substrate-independent inhibition ([S] = K(m)), results yielded substrate-dependent inhibition. Moreover, when the same experimental design was extended to a group of structurally similar flavonoids it was observed that flavanone, flavone, 3-hydroxyflavone, and 6-hydroxyflavone (10 microM) activated triazolam metabolism, but inhibited testosterone hydroxylation. In additional studies, residual CYP3A4 activity toward testosterone and triazolam hydroxylation was measured after pretreatment with the CYP3A4 mechanism based inhibitor, midazolam. After midazolam preincubation, CYP3A4 6 beta-hydroxylase activity was reduced by 47% while, in contrast, triazolam hydroxylation was reduced by 75%. These results provide physical evidence, which supports the hypothesis that the active site of CYP3A4 contains spatially distinct substrate-binding domains within the enzyme active site.
16825803	Effect of metabolite I of erdosteine on the release of human neutrophil elastase.	Erdosteine is a mucolytic drug whose metabolization gives rise to an active metabolite with an SH group (Met I), which reduces neutrophil release of reactive oxygen species and the peroxynitrite generated by the reaction of superoxide anion with nitric oxide, thus disrupting the phlogogenic loop sustained by activated neutrophils. Elastase, a serine proteinase released by activated human neutrophils, can degrade a wide variety of biomacromolecules including elastin and is considered to be pivotal in the pathogenesis of respiratory tract inflammation. The aim of this study was to examine whether, in addition to reducing the generation of free radicals, Met I can also interfere with the human neutrophil release of elastase. After the neutrophils were incubated with increasing amounts of Met I (1.25, 2.5, 5, 10, 20 microg/ml), elastase exocytosis was initiated by fMLP and measured using MeO-Suc-Ala-Ala-Pro-Val-MCA. The results showed that Met I significantly inhibits fMLP-induced elastase release by neutrophils in a concentration-dependent manner from 2.5 to 20 microg/ml. Our findings may be clinically relevant because the inhibitory effects were obtained at Met I concentrations that are achievable in the clinical setting. By reducing elastase and oxidant radical release (two major components of the inflammatory process), Met I have clinically useful anti-inflammatory effects.
21249338	Metabolism studies of the Kratom alkaloid speciociliatine, a diastereomer of the main alkaloid mitragynine, in rat and human urine using liquid chromatography-linear ion trap mass spectrometry.	Mitragyna speciosa (Kratom) is currently used as a drug of abuse. When monitoring its abuse in urine, several alkaloids and their metabolites must be considered. In former studies, mitragynine (MG), its diastereomer speciogynine (SG), and paynantheine and their metabolites could be identified in rat and human urine using LC-MS(n). In Kratom users' urines, besides MG and SG, further isomeric compounds were detected. To elucidate whether the MG and SG diastereomer speciociliatine (SC) and its metabolites represent further compounds, the phase I and II metabolites of SC were identified first in rat urine after the administration of the pure alkaloid. Then, the identified rat metabolites were screened for in the urine of Kratom users using the above-mentioned LC-MS(n) procedure. Considering the mass spectra and retention times, it could be confirmed that SC and its metabolites are so far the unidentified isomers in human urine. In conclusion, SC and its metabolites can be used as further markers for Kratom use, especially by consumption of raw material or products that contain a high amount of fruits of the Malaysian plant M. speciosa.
15808002	Validation of liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization ion trap mass spectrometry method for the determination of mesocarb in human plasma and urine.	Mesocarb metabolism in humans is the target of this investigation. A high-performance liquid chromatographic (LC) method with electrospray ionization (ESI)-ion trap mass spectrometric (MS) detection ion trap "SL" for the simultaneous determination of mesocarb and its metabolites in plasma and urine is developed and validated. Ten metabolites and the parent drug are detected in human urine, and only four in human plasma, after the administration of a single oral dose of 10 mg of mesocarb (Sydnocarb, two 5-mg tablets). Seven of this metabolites have been found for the first time. The confirmation of the results and identification of all the metabolites except amphetamine is performed by LC-MS, LC-MS-MS, and LC-MS3. In the case of doping analysis, the reliable detection time for mesocarb (long-life dihydroxymesocarb metabolites of mesocarb) is approximately 10-11 days after the administration of the drug, which is a significant increase over the existing data. The detection of amphetamine in plasma and urine is made using simple flow-injection analysis without a chromatographic separation. The addition-calibration method is used with plasma and urine. The mean recoveries from plasma are 49.2% and 57.4% for mesocarb concentrations of 33.0 and 66.0 ng/mL, respectively, whereas the recoveries from human urine are 76.9% and 81.4% for concentrations of 1 and 2 ng/mL, respectively. Calibration curves (using an internal standard method) are linear (r2>0.9969) for concentrations 0.6 to 67 ng/mL and from 0.05 to 5 ng/mL in plasma and urine, respectively. Both intra- and interassay precision of plasma control samples at 3, 40, and 55 ng/mL are lower than 6.2%, and the concentrations do not deviate for more than -3.4% to 7.3% from their nominal values. In urine, intra- and interassay precision of control samples at 0.08, 1.5, and 3.0 ng/mL is lower than 14.1%, with concentrations not deviating for more than -11.3% to 13.7% from their nominal values. The plasma disappearance curve of the parent drug is obtained. The major pharmacokinetic parameters are calculated.
12820211	Quantitative determination of paroxetine and its 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy metabolite in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ion trap mass spectrometry: application to pharmacokinetic studies.	A high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with tandem mass spectrometric detection is described for the determination of paroxetine, an antidepressant drug, and its metabolite (3S,4R)-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenoxymethyl)piperidine (HM paroxetine) in human plasma. Plasma samples were hydrolysed with hydrochloric acid and then analytes were extracted with ethyl acetate at alkaline pH. Extracts were analysed by HPLC coupled to an atmospheric pressure ionisation-electrospray (ESI) interface and an ion trap mass spectrometer. Chromatography was performed on a reversed-phase column using acetonitrile/0.02% formic acid (66:34, v/v) as a mobile phase. The mass spectrometer was operated in the multiple reaction monitoring mode. The method was validated over concentration ranges of 0.75-100 microg/L and 5-100 microg/L for paroxetine and HM paroxetine, respectively. Mean recoveries of 77% for paroxetine and 76% for HM paroxetine were found, with precision always better than 15%. The limits of detection and quantification were 0.20 and 0.70 microg/L for paroxetine, and 0.70 and 2.20 microg/L for its metabolite. The method was applied to the analysis of plasma samples obtained from nine healthy male volunteers administered with a single oral dose of 20 mg paroxetine. After the 20-mg dose, the mean peak plasma concentration was 8.60 microg/L for paroxetine and 92.40 microg/L for HM paroxetine showing a tenfold ratio between the metabolite and the parent drug along the entire time-concentration curve.
21087114	Presence and ex vivo formation of acridone in blood of patients routinely treated with carbamazepine: exploration of the 9-acridinecarboxaldehyde pathway.	Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a useful anticonvulsive drug associated with rare severe adverse drug reactions. The physio-pathological mechanisms of these reactions are unknown although evidence of immunological activation has been reported. The ability of 9-acridinecarboxaldehyde, a CBZ metabolite, to interact with leukocyte constituents was demonstrated, and catabolism of this compound into acridine (AI) and acridone (AO) was observed in vitro. In this study, we have assessed ex vivo the role of the extra-hepatic 9-acridinecarboxaldehyde pathway in the metabolism of CBZ. First, we verified the presence of the terminal metabolites AI and AO in CBZ-treated patients. Then, we tested ex vivo the transformation of CBZ, epoxy CBZ, iminostilbene, and AI into AO in the blood of these patients. We observed no direct formation of hydroxylated CBZ metabolites in isolated blood, and CBZ did not react with blood cells. Conversely, we detected a dose-dependent transformation of epoxy CBZ, iminostilbene, and AI into AO with individual variations from patient to patient. AO might thus be considered as a metabolite of 9-acridinecarboxaldehyde that does not react with cells (detoxicant pathway) as well as a marker of the formation of toxic AI derivatives (toxicant pathway).
2165796	Decay of nitroprusside. II: In vivo.	Clinical experience suggests that nitroprusside (SNP) concentrations decay more rapidly in vivo than in vitro. Plasma concentrations of SNP were measured therefore in 20 patients at the end of an infusion, with mean arterial pressure (MAP) and cyanide (HCN) concentrations. Plasma SNP concentrations (20-243 micrograms litre-1; mean = 123.5 micrograms litre-1), were related to infusion rate (r = 0.66, P less than 0.001), and declined rapidly to a mean (SD) of 7.7 (4.5) micrograms litre-1 in 15 min. The decay of SNP correlated closely with the increase in arterial pressure (mean MAP vs log mean plasma SNP concentrations: r = -0.993, P less than 0.001), and was probably biphasic: mean (SD) T1/2 alpha = 0.89 (0.62) min, T1/2 beta = 14.3 (12) min. Mean plasma HCN and mean plasma SNP concentrations decreased together (r = 0.955, P less than 0.001), thus confirming that in vivo decomposition of the drug is the source of HCN.
15283301	Effect of gemfibrozil on the metabolism of pitavastatin--determining the best animal model for human CYP and UGT activities.	A series of studies was conducted to determine the best animal model for human CYP and UGT activities. The investigation focused primarily on the interactions occurring in the CYP- or UGT-mediated metabolism of pitavastatin, and involved in vitro and in vivo experiments. We found that the best animal models for human CYP-mediated hydroxylation and UGT-mediated lactonization of pitavastatin were rats and dogs, respectively. In addition, a large difference in the metabolic properties of pitavastatin was found between monkeys and humans. In the presence of gemfibrozil, the CYP- or UGT-mediated metabolism of pitavastatin was inhibited in vitro. However, gemfibrozil treatment had no inhibitory effect on the AUC of pitavastatin and its lactone form in rats and dogs. We conclude that the plasma level of pitavastatin would not be increased by co-administration of gemfibrozil in humans.
11133658	Thymidine kinase-independent intracellular delivery of bioactive nucleotides by aryl phosphate derivatives of bromo-methoxy zidovudine (compounds WHI-05 and WHI-07) in normal human female genital tract epithelial cells and sperm.	The compounds WHI-05 (5-bromo-6-methoxy-5, 6-dihydro-3'-azidothymidine-5'-[p-methoxyphenyl] methoxyalaninyl phosphate) and WHI-07 (5-bromo-6-methoxy-5, 6-dihydro-3'-azidothymidine-5'-[p-bromophenyl] methoxyalaninyl phosphate) are aryl phosphate derivatives of zidovudine (ZDV) with dual-function anti-human immunodeficiency virus and contraceptive activity. These drugs were rationally designed to bypass the thymidine kinase (TK) dependency of ZDV activation as well as to achieve spermicidal activity. We investigated the TK activity and intracellular metabolism of WHI-05 and WHI-07 in normal human vaginal and cervical epithelial cells as well as sperm. The time- and concentration-dependent intracellular formation of ZDV metabolites following addition of WHI-05 and WHI-07 to normal human vaginal, ectocervical, and endocervical epithelial cells as well as motile sperm was studied by analytical HPLC. Thymidine kinase activity in these cells was determined by the flow cytometric method based on intracellular phosphorylation of the fluorescent nucleoside, 5-amino-2-deoxyuridine-dansyl chloride and by the ability of cell-free extracts to convert [(3)H]thymidine to thymidine monophosphate in comparison to NALM-6, a pre-B leukemia cell line. TK activity of genital tract epithelial cells and sperm was found to be relatively low or lacking. Addition of WHI-05 and WHI-07 to vaginal and cervical epithelial cells resulted in their concentration- and time-dependent conversion to alaninyl ZDV monophosphate (Ala-ZDV-MP) and 5'-ZDV monophosphate as the major metabolites. Studies using motile human sperm also demonstrated the conversion of WHI-05 and WHI-07 to Ala-ZDV-MP. These results demonstrate that human female genital tract epithelial cells and sperm efficiently convert WHI-05 and WHI-07 to bioactive ZDV metabolites despite their TK deficiency.
16725386	A liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometric assay for quantitation of the histone deacetylase inhibitor, vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamicacid, SAHA), and its metabolites in human serum.	Vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) is undergoing evaluation as an antineoplastic agent. We developed a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assay for quantitating vorinostat and its major metabolites, vorinostat glucuronide and 4-anilino-4-oxobutanoic acid, in human serum. The assay uses: deuterated internal standards; acetonitrile protein precipitation; a BDS Hypersil C18 (3 microm, 100 mm x 3 mm) column; a gradient mobile phase of 0.5% acetic acid in acetonitrile and water; and electrospray positive-mode ionization with selected reaction monitoring (SRM) detection. The lower limit of quantitation was 3.0 ng/ml for each analyte. The assay is being employed in at least 12 clinical studies of vorinostat-containing regimens.
15060739	Final results of a phase I and pharmacokinetic study of gamma-methylene-10-deazaaminopterin (MDAM) administered intravenously daily for five consecutive days in patients with solid tumors.	To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of gamma-methylene-10-deazaaminopterin (MDAM), a unique antifolate structurally similar to methotrexate (MTX), in the treatment of patients with solid tumors and to characterize toxicity and pharmacokinetic profiles of MDAM administered intravenously for five consecutive days repeated every 21 days. A group of 18 patients with treatment-refractory colorectal cancer (CRC) were given MDAM at increasing dose levels from 80 to 300 mg/m2 per day intravenously for 5 days every 3 weeks. A total of 18 patients were entered into the study. Grade 2 or less nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia and fatigue were observed at doses > or =160 mg/m2 per day. Both patients enrolled at 300 mg/m2 per day experienced grade 3 stomatitis and one patient had grade 4 granulocytopenia. At 270 mg/m2 per day, grade 3 stomatitis (n=2), thrombocytopenia (n=1) and hyperbilirubinemia (n=1) were observed. All toxicities were relatively brief in duration and reversible. Leucovorin rescue was not required. Of 17 evaluable patients, no complete or partial responses were observed, and 3 patients demonstrated stable disease. Pharmacokinetic analyses were performed in 16 of the 18 patients receiving MDAM at doses of 80, 160, 240, 270 and 300 mg/m2. Normalized clearance of MDAM was approximately 1.5 times that reported for MTX (125 vs 80 ml/min per m2) in adults. MDAM is a novel antifolate with potential pharmacokinetic and safety advantages over MTX. Based on the results of this phase I study, stomatitis emerged as the dose-limiting toxicity and the recommended starting dose for phase II trials using this schedule and route of administration is 240 mg/m2 per day.
18611062	Effects of hepatic or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of aripiprazole.	Two studies were conducted to investigate whether the pharmacokinetics of the atypical antipsychotic aripiprazole were altered in individuals with hepatic or renal impairment compared with those with normal hepatic or renal function. Two open-label, single-dose studies. Clinical research unit. Study 1: Subjects with normal hepatic function (n = 6) and subjects with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A [mild, n = 8], B [moderate, n = 8] or C [severe, n = 3]). Study 2: Subjects with normal renal function (creatinine clearance >80 mL/min; n = 7) and subjects with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min; n = 6). Single oral dose of aripiprazole 15 mg. PHARMACOKINETIC ANALYSES: Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using plasma aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole concentration-time data. Study 1 (hepatic impairment study): apparent oral clearance of unbound drug (CL/Fu) and the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of aripiprazole; Study 2 (renal impairment study): CL/Fu, Cmax and renal clearance (CL(R)). Safety assessments included 12-lead ECGs, vital sign monitoring, clinical laboratory measurements and assessment of adverse events.f In the hepatic impairment study, the mean total Cmax of aripiprazole was significantly lower in subjects with severe hepatic impairment compared with those with normal hepatic function (p = 0.04). The fraction of aripiprazole unbound (fu) was significantly greater for subjects with mild (p = 0.02) or severe hepatic impairment (p < 0.01) but not for those with moderate hepatic impairment (p = 0.09) compared with healthy controls. There were no meaningful differences in either the Cmax of unbound aripiprazole or CL/Fu between groups. The mean CL(R) of aripiprazole was negligible (0.04 mL/h/kg in controls and 0.19 mL/h/kg in patients with severe hepatic impairment). In the renal impairment study, the mean total Cmax values were numerically higher (approximately 40%) and the area under the plasma aripiprazole concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity was lower (approximately 19%) in renally impaired subjects versus those with normal renal function; the fu was comparable between groups. Aripiprazole CL(R) was approximately 3-fold higher in renally impaired subjects, but this difference was not statistically significant. No deaths or serious adverse events were reported during either study. A single aripiprazole 15-mg dose was well tolerated. There were no meaningful differences in aripiprazole pharmacokinetics between groups of subjects with normal hepatic or renal function and those with either hepatic or renal impairment. Adjustment of the aripiprazole dose does not appear to be required in populations with hepatic or renal impairment.
21367675	LC-MS/MS characterization of the urinary excretion profile of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol in human and rat.	The understanding of mycotoxins transfer to biological fluids is challenged by the difficulties in performing and replicating in vivo experiments as well as the lack of suitable methods of analysis to detect simultaneously a range of chemically different metabolites at trace levels. LC-MS/MS has been used herein to study the urinary excretion profile of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol in human and Wistar rat. Deoxynivalenol and deoxynivalenol glucuronide were found in both human and rat urines, whereas de-epoxydeoxynivalenol and its glucuronide conjugate were only detected in rat urine. The presence of two deoxynivalenol glucuronide isomers in Wistar rat urine has been shown for the first time. Structure confirmation of the detected metabolites was provided by the analysis of fragmentation patterns. A solid phase extraction clean up procedure allowing recoveries in the range 72-102% for deoxynivalenol, de-epoxydeoxynivalenol, and their glucuronide conjugates was optimized. A multiple reaction monitoring method for the simultaneous determination of all investigated metabolites was elaborated allowing the direct detection of deoxynivalenol metabolites without the hydrolysis step. Deoxynivalenol urinary levels in the range 0.003-0.008 g/ml were detected in healthy human subjects, whereas deoxynivalenol and de-epoxynivalenol levels between 1.9-4.9 g/ml and 1.6-5.9 g/ml, respectively were found in administered rat urine. These findings emphasize the relevance of the highly selective and sensitive LC-MS/MS technique for the direct detection and characterization of deoxynivalenol metabolites in complex biological matrices.
19883238	In vitro evidence for the formation of reactive intermediates of resveratrol in human liver microsomes.	Resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is a naturally occurring polyphenolic compound found in a variety of foods and over-the-counter health products. It has gained wide public use due to its potential health properties, and is available over-the-counter at health product stores. Although the safety profile of resveratrol has been minimally investigated in humans, resveratrol has been associated with observations of toxicity in vitro, and has been identified as a mechanism-based inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4. In addition, resveratrol has been rationally hypothesized to form reactive quinone methide metabolites, despite experimental evidence supporting this assumption. This work evaluates the potential for resveratrol to form glutathione-trapped reactive intermediates in human liver microsomes utilizing liquid chromatography and electrospray tandem mass spectrometry, and has resulted in the identification of several in vitro products including two hydroxylated metabolites (piceatannol and metabolite 2), and two pairs of regioisomeric glutathione adducts. The parallel metabolism of resveratrol to piceatannol and metabolite 2 (a putative quinone methide) are demonstrated to result in the formation of two putative quinone methide intermediates resulting in divergent mechanisms for formation of each pair of regioisomeric glutathione adducts.
23065531	Metabolism and quantification of [(18)F]DPA-714, a new TSPO positron emission tomography radioligand.	[(18)F]DPA-714 [N,N-diethyl-2-(2-(4-(2[(18)F]-fluoroethoxy)phenyl)5,7dimethylpyrazolo[1,5a]pyrimidin-3-yl)acetamide] is a new radioligand currently used for imaging the 18-kDa translocator protein in animal models of neuroinflammation and recently in humans. The biodistribution by positron emission tomography (PET) in baboons and the in vitro and in vivo metabolism of [(18)F]DPA-714 were investigated in rats, baboons, and humans. Whole-body PET experiments showed a high uptake of radioactivity in the kidneys, heart, liver, and gallbladder. The liver was a major route of elimination of [(18)F]DPA-714, and urine was a route of excretion for radiometabolites. In rat and baboon plasma, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) metabolic profiles showed three major radiometabolites accounting for 85% and 89% of total radioactivity at 120 minutes after injection, respectively. Rat microsomal incubations and analyses by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) identified seven metabolites, characterized as O-deethyl, hydroxyl, and N-deethyl derivatives of nonradioactive DPA-714, two of them having the same retention times than those detected in rat and baboon plasma. The third plasma radiometabolite was suggested to be a carboxylic acid compound that accounted for 15% of the rat brain radioactivity. O-deethylation led to a nonradioactive compound and [(18)F]fluoroacetic acid. Human CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 were shown to be involved in the oxidation of the radioligand. Finally an easy, rapid, and accurate method--indispensable for PET quantitative clinical studies--for quantifying [(18)F]DPA-714 by solid-phase extraction was developed. In vivo, an extensive metabolism of [(18)F]DPA-714 was observed in rats and baboons, identified as [(18)F]deethyl, [(18)F]hydroxyl, and [(18)F]carboxylic acid derivatives of [(18)F]DPA-714. The main route of excretion of the unchanged radioligand in baboons was hepatobiliary while that of radiometabolites was the urinary system.
8971609	Simultaneous determination of coumarin, 7-hydroxycoumarin and 7-hydroxycoumarin glucuronide in human serum and plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A HPLC method was developed for the determination of the metabolites of coumarin and 7-hydroxycoumarin in plasma and serum. Separation was based on gradient elution of 7-hydroxycoumarin glucuronide, 7-hydroxycoumarin, coumarin and finally 4-hydroxycoumarin (which is used as an internal standard). Standards, prepared in plasma or serum, and samples were treated with trichloroacetic acid, mixed and centrifuged. The supernatant was removed and analyzed by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography on a C18 column. The limit of detection was 50 ng/ml for 7-hydroxycoumarin and 200 ng/ml for coumarin and 7-hydroxycoumarin glucuronide. The linear range was 0.5-100 micrograms/ml for each of the analytes. The percentage relative standard deviation about the mean measured concentrations were all below 10%. There was no statistical difference between the standard curves prepared in plasma or serum. The method developed was applied to the determination of each of the three compounds in serum, after the administration of 7-hydroxycoumarin, and in plasma after the administration of coumarin. The concentrations of total 7-hydroxycoumarin in the serum samples were also determined by another HPLC method and the results were compared. There was no statistical difference between the results determined.
18635749	Pitfalls and prevention strategies for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in the selected reaction-monitoring mode for drug analysis.	We observed cases of false-positive results with the use of liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Different LC-MS/MS techniques that use the selected reaction-monitoring mode, routinely employed for the analysis and quantification of drugs and toxic compounds in biological matrices, were involved in the false-positive and potentially false-positive results obtained. We sought to analyze the causes of and solutions to this problem. We used a previously reported LC-MS/MS general unknown screening method, as well as manual spectral investigation in 1 case, to perform verification and identification of interfering compounds. We observed that false-positive results involved: a metabolite of zolpidem that might have been mistaken for lysergic acid diethylamide, benzoylecgonine mistaken for atropine, and clomipramine and 3 phenothiazines that share several common ion transitions. To prevent problems such as those we experienced, we recommend the use of stable-isotope internal standards when possible, relative retention times, 2 transitions or more per compound when possible, and acceptable relative abundance ratios between transitions, with an experience-based tolerance of +/-15% for transitions with a relative abundance >10% and with an extension to +/-25% for transitions <10% when the concentration is at the limit of quantification. A powerful general unknown screening procedure can help to confirm suspected interferences. Our results indicate that the specificity of screening procedures is questionable for LC-MS/MS analyses performed in the selected reaction-monitoring mode and involving a large number of compounds with only 1 transition per compound.
690998	Metabolic fate of tolazamide in man and in the rat.	The metabolic fate of tolazamide, 1-(hexahydroazepin-1-yl)-3-p-tolylsulfonylurea (1), was studied in man and in the rat using tritium-labeled 1. The metabolites were isolated in crystalline form from urine for structure determination. The crystal structure and final molecular structure of one of these, 1-(4-hydroxyhexahydroazepin-1-yl)-3-p-tolylsulfonylurea (5), were determined using single-crystal X-ray techniques. Following oral administration of tritiated tolazamide to male humans, 85% of the radioactivity was excreted in urine during a 5-day period. In addition to being excreted in urine unchanged, tolazamide was metabolized to 1-(hexahydroazepin-1-yl)-3-p-(carboxyphenyl)sulfonylurea (2), p-toluenesulfonamide (3), 1-(hexahydroazepin-1-yl)-3-p-(hydroxymethylphenyl)sulfonylurea (4), 1-(4-hydroxyhexahydroazepin-1-yl)-3-p-tolylsulfonylurea (5) and a labile, unidentified metabolite 6 by man. The relative amounts of these materials excreted in 0-24-h urine collections from eight subjects averaged 7, 17, 26, 10, 25, and 15% for 1-6, respectively. In the female rat, 79% of an orally administered dose of tritiated tolazamide was excreted in urine during a 5-day period as 1-4. The relative amounts of these materials excreted during the 24-h period following administration of tolazamide were 10, 5, 5, and 80% for 1-4, respectively.
22294059	Differences in lercanidipine systemic exposure when administered according to labelling: in fasting state and 15 minutes before food intake.	The aim of this study was to compare the systemic exposure of lercanidipine (Zanidip) after oral administration in the fasted state and 15 min before food intake (meals) to investigate if the recommendations in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) with respect to the intake of meals are adequate. The results of three pilot bioequivalence studies performed to develop a lercanidipine generic product, where Zanidip was administered consistently as reference product in the fasted state or 15 min before a standard breakfast, were compared to estimate the drugfood interaction and the similarity of the methods of administration defined in the SPC. The ingestion of a standard (non-high-fat, non-high-calorie) meal 15 min after drug intake increased the area under the concentrationtime curve (AUC(0-t)) of S-lercanidipine by 1.78-fold [90% confidence interval (CI) 1.482.15, P<0.0001] and the maximum concentration (Cmax) of Slercanidipine by 1.82-fold (90% CI 1.462.28, P<0.0001). These values are close to the twofold increase that has been described when Zanidip was taken immediately after a carbohydrate-rich meal. Higher levels would be expected with a high-fat, high-calorie meal. As intake with a carbohydrate-rich meal is not recommended in the SPC of Zanidip because a twofold difference was considered to be clinically relevant, the intake of lercanidipine only 15 min before food intake does not seem to be consistent with this recommendation. The Marketing Authorisation Holder should clarify the dosing instructions in relation to meals and identify a sufficient time-lapse to ensure an exposure similar to that obtained in phase III clinical efficacy studies.
14578322	Sensitive HPLC-fluorescence method for irinotecan and four major metabolites in human plasma and saliva: application to pharmacokinetic studies.	We developed gradient HPLC methods for quantification of the antimitotic drug irinotecan (CPT-11) and its four metabolites, SN-38, SN-38 G, 7-ethyl-10-[4-N-(5-aminopentanoic acid)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (APC), and 7-ethyl-10-[4amino-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin (NPC), as the sum of the lactone and carboxylate forms, in human plasma and saliva. Camptothecin was used as internal standard. The sample pretreatment involved protein precipitation with methanol-acetonitrile (50:50 by volume) followed by acidification with hydrochloric acid to convert the lactone ring-opened form into its lactone form, quantitatively. HPLC separation was performed on a Xterra RP18 column. The excitation wavelength was 370 nm, and the emission wavelength was set at 470 nm for the first 24 min and then at 534 nm for the next 4 min. The stabilities of irinotecan and its four metabolites in plasma, saliva, and acidic extracts were also investigated under various conditions. Assays were linear in the tested range of 0.5-1000 micro g/L. For the five analytes, limits of quantification were 0.5 micro g/L in both matrices. The interassay imprecision (as relative standard deviation) was 3.2-14% in plasma and 2.6-5.6% in saliva. Assay recoveries ranged from 92.8% to 111.2% for plasma and 100.1% to 104.1% for saliva. Mean extraction recovery from plasma or saliva was 90%. The developed assay can be used to determine pharmacokinetic parameters for CPT-11, SN-38, SN-38 G, APC, and NPC in plasma and saliva from patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
11956509	Cholinergic toxic syndrome by the anticancer drug irinotecan: acetylcholinesterase does not play a major role.	The anticancer drug irinotecan induces cholinergic side effects that are currently ascribed to the blockade of acetylcholinesterase. This study investigated (1) the pattern of acetylcholinesterase activity in patients receiving treatment with irinotecan and (2) the relationship between acetylcholinesterase activity and plasma concentrations of irinotecan, 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), and SN-38 glucuronide (SN-38G). Twenty-five patients with advanced colorectal cancer were treated with 250 mg/m(2) irinotecan administered by intravenous infusion for 60 minutes. Blood samples were collected before drug infusion and at 15 minutes and 45 minutes after the start of drug infusion. Blood acetylcholinesterase activity was determined by a colorimetric enzymatic assay, and irinotecan, SN-38, and SN-38G concentrations were determined in plasma by HPLC. The in vitro effects of irinotecan and other drugs on human acetylcholinesterase were also assessed. Compared with basal values, the activity of acetylcholinesterase in blood specimens collected during irinotecan infusion at 15 minutes (-0.76%) and at 45 minutes (-1.50%) showed no changes. No relationships were established between the activity of blood acetylcholinesterase at 15 or 45 minutes and plasma concentrations of irinotecan, SN-38, or SN-38G measured at the same time points. In vitro, the activity of acetylcholinesterase was inhibited by 100-micromol/L irinotecan (-24.8%) and markedly reduced by 1-micromol/L physostigmine (-86.7%), whereas neither SN-38 nor camptothecin had an effect. Although the use of erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase as a surrogate marker of acetylcholinesterase activity in the nervous system has not been firmly established, our findings do not support the hypothesis that the toxic cholinergic syndrome associated with irinotecan treatment depends on acetylcholinesterase blockade.
12870896	Stereochemical and kinetic comparisons of mono- and diepoxide formation in the in vitro metabolism of isoprene by liver microsomes from rats, mice, and humans.	Isoprene (2-methylbuta-1,3-diene) is a large scale petrochemical used principally in the manufacture of synthetic rubbers. It is also produced by plants and trees and is formed endogenously in mammals as a major endogenous hydrocarbon. Mammalian metabolism of isoprene involves cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenases to give the regioisomeric monoepoxides, prop-2-enyloxirane and 2-ethenyl-2-methyloxirane. The isoprene monoepoxides are further oxidized to the mutagenic diepoxides, 2-methyl-2,2'-bioxiranes. The present studies have investigated the stereochemistry and comparative rates of the metabolic epoxidation in vitro of isoprene to mono- and diepoxides by liver microsomes from rat, mouse, and human in order to identify stereochemical and kinetic differences between species in the formation of these epoxide metabolites, which are key to understanding the toxicology of isoprene. The assignments of stereochemistry were based on comparisons with synthetic standards, the syntheses for which are described. Comparative enzyme kinetic parameters (apparent K(m) and apparent V(max) values) for the in vitro formation of all of the monoepoxide and diepoxide stereoisomers have been obtained. The rates of formation of both mono- and diepoxides were greater in the rodent systems as compared with the human in vitro system. The results provide comparative kinetic data that have potential for modeling and assessing the relevance of the animal carcinogenicity data for man. The possibility of human interindividual variation was also investigated with liver preparations from several individual humans, but significant differences between individuals were not observed in the formation of the monoepoxides from isoprene.
8055650	Comparative dosimetry of O6-methylguanine in humans and rodents treated with procarbazine.	The accumulation of O6-methylguanine (O6-meG) in the DNA of blood leukocytes of 21 Hodgkin's lymphoma patients (followed for up to 12 cycles of treatment) treated in the context of MOPP combination chemotherapy with 150 mg procarbazine daily for 10 days was examined and compared to that observed in rats treated with different doses of procarbazine as a single agent once per day for 10 days. In humans, the adduct accumulated in a dose-related fashion and appeared to approach a steady-state after 7-8 days of treatment. Adduct levels on day 10 of the treatment cycle averaged 0.25 +/- 0.09 (mean +/- SD) mumol/molG and, for different individuals, covered a 3-fold range. Intra-individual variability between different treatment cycles was much more limited than inter-individual variability, the two parameters accounting for 8.9% and 84.5% respectively of adduct variance at a constant cumulative dose. Comparison of the dose-response relationships for humans and rats indicates that, under conditions of no depletion of O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT), O6-meG accumulates in blood leukocyte DNA of humans at a rate which is only approximately 2-fold lower than in rats, implying that, to the extent to which O6-meG contributes to the genotoxic activity of procarbazine, human susceptibility to it is likely to be comparable to that of the rat. This is likely to be true also of the bone marrow (the tissue of interest as a target tissue for leukaemogenesis), since the tissue distribution of O6-meG induced by low doses of procarbazine in rats, mice and rabbits indicated that blood leukocyte levels of this adduct closely reflect those in the bone marrow. Based on these results, it is estimated that by the end of a MOPP chemotherapy cycle O6-meG reaches levels of the order of 0.2-0.3 fmol/microgram DNA (0.3-0.5 mumol/molG) in human bone marrow (the target tissue of leukaemogenesis observed after such treatment).
17429625	Preclinical pharmacokinetics and in vitro metabolism of dasatinib (BMS-354825): a potent oral multi-targeted kinase inhibitor against SRC and BCR-ABL.	Dasatinib (BMS-354825), a potent oral multi-targeted kinase inhibitor against SRC and BCR-ABL, has recently been approved for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) in imatinib-acquired resistance and intolerance. In vitro and in vivo studies were conducted to characterize the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of dasatinib in mouse, rat, dog, and monkey. Possible mechanisms contributing to the incomplete oral bioavailability of dasatinib in animals were investigated. Metabolic stability of dasatinib was measured after incubation with liver microsomes (either NADPH- or UDPGA-fortified) and isolated hepatocytes obtained from mouse, rat, dog, monkey, and human. In all cases, substrate depletion over time was measured, and appropriate scaling factors were used to predict in vivo clearance. Pharmacokinetics of dasatinib were determined in mice, rats, dogs, and monkeys after administration of single intravenous or oral doses. In addition, the routes of excretion were investigated after administration of dasatinib to bile duct cannulated (BDC) rats. Absorption and first-pass metabolism were evaluated as possible reasons for the incomplete oral bioavailability using various in vitro and in vivo models like Caco-2 cells, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) knockout mice, and intra-portal dosing in rats. In vivo systemic plasma clearance values of dasatinib were 62, 26, 25, and 34 ml/min/kg in mouse, rat, dog, and monkey, respectively. Scaling of in vitro hepatocyte and liver microsomal data gave reasonably good predictions of in vivo clearances across all species. Percent distribution in blood cells ranged from 43% in mouse to 57% in dog. Dasatinib showed high volumes of distribution (>3 l/kg) and high serum protein binding values (>90%) in all four species tested. Oral bioavailability of dasatinib ranged from 14% in the mouse to 34% in the dog. In rats, bioavailability after an intraportal dose was comparable to that after intra-arterial administration. In BDC rats, less than 15% of an intravenous dose was excreted unchanged in urine, bile, and the gastrointestinal tract, suggesting that dasatinib is cleared primarily via metabolism. Dasatinib has high intrinsic permeability in Caco-2 cells, however, the efflux ratio was approximately two-fold indicating that it may be a substrate for an intestinal efflux transporter. However, in vivo studies in P-gp knockout mice versus wild-type mice showed no difference in the amount of dasatinib remaining unabsorbed in the gastrointestinal tract, suggesting that P-gp may not be responsible for the incomplete bioavailability. Dasatinib shows intermediate clearance in mouse, rat, dog, and monkey, and distributes extensively in those species. Oxidative metabolism appears to be the predominant clearance pathway. The incomplete oral bioavailability may be due to both incomplete absorption and high first-pass metabolism. However, the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein does not appear to be limiting oral absorption.
11452239	Orally given melatonin may serve as a probe drug for cytochrome P450 1A2 activity in vivo: a pilot study.	Melatonin is a hormone that is metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 to its main primary metabolite 6-hydroxymelatonin. We therefore evaluated the utility of oral melatonin as a marker of hepatic CYP1A2 activity. Twenty-five milligrams of melatonin was given at 9:30 am to 12 healthy Swedish volunteers, who had previously been phenotyped for CYP1A2 with caffeine. Melatonin and conjugated 6-hydroxymelatonin were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in blood samples taken between 0.5 and 6.5 hours after drug intake. Serum concentrations of melatonin and conjugated 6-hydroxymelatonin, or their ratio at different time points, and the apparent melatonin clearance were tested for correlation with caffeine clearance. We found a significant correlation between apparent clearance of melatonin and caffeine clearance with a Spearman rank correlation coefficient (Rs) of 0.75 (P =.005). The melatonin concentration 1.5 hours after administration also closely correlated with the caffeine clearance (Rs = -0.62; P =.03). Inclusion of conjugated 6-hydroxymelatonin gave no closer correlations. Melatonin might be developed as an alternative to caffeine as a probe drug for CYP1A2 phenotyping.
12584149	Assessment of the contributions of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 in the metabolism of the antipsychotic agent haloperidol to its potentially neurotoxic pyridinium metabolite and effect of antidepressants on the bioactivation pathway.	As a plausible explanation for the large interindividual variability in the pharmacokinetics of the neuroleptic agent haloperidol, the contributions of CYP3A isozymes (CYP3A4 and the polymorphic CYP3A5) predominantly involved in haloperidol bioactivation to the neurotoxic pyridinium species 4-(4-Chlorophenyl)-1-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl]-pyridinium (HPP(+)) were assessed in human liver microsomes and heterologously expressed enzymes. Based on recent reports on drug-drug interactions between haloperidol and antidepressants including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, the inhibitory effects of antidepressants on the CYP3A4/5-mediated haloperidol bioactivation were also evaluated. HPP(+) formation followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics in microsomes, recombinant CYP3A4, and CYP3A5 with K(m) values of 24.4 +/- 8.9 microM, 18.3 +/- 4.9 microM, and 200.2 +/- 47.6 microM, respectively, and V(max) values of 157.6 +/- 13.2 pmol/min/mg of protein, 10.4 +/- 0.6 pmol/min/pmol P450, and 5.16 +/- 0.6 pmol/min/pmol P450, respectively. The similarity in K(m) values between human liver microsomal and recombinant CYP3A4 incubations suggests that polymorphic CYP3A5 may not be an important genetic contributor to the interindividual variability in CYP3A-mediated haloperidol clearance pathways. Besides HPP(+), a novel 4-fluorophenyl-ring-hydroxylated metabolite of haloperidol in microsomes/CYP3A enzymes was also detected. Its formation was consistent with previous reports on the detection of O-sulfate and -glucuronide conjugates of a fluorophenyl ring-hydroxylated metabolite of haloperidol in human urine. Finally, all antidepressants except buspirone inhibited the CYP3A4/5-catalyzed oxidation of haloperidol to HPP(+) in a concentration-dependent manner. Based on the estimated IC(50) values for inhibition of HPP(+) formation in microsomes, the antidepressants were ranked in the following order: fluoxetine, nefazodone, norfluoxetine, trazodone, and fluvoxamine. These inhibition results suggest that clinically observed drug-drug interactions between haloperidol and antidepressants may arise via the attenuation of CYP3A4/5-mediated 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl]-4-piperidinol biotransformation pathways.
22568631	Two novel creatinine adducts of andrographolide in human urine.	Andrographolide is a major labdane diterpenoid of the traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine. Andrographis paniculate (Burm) Nees, is used in clinical situations in China mainly to treat fever, cold, and inflammation. In our previous study, fifteen metabolites of andrographolide were identified in human urine. However, there are still two other unknown metabolites. The aim of this study was to elucidate the structures of these two metabolites. 3. The two metabolites which are probably epimers were identified as creatinine adducts, and their structures were determined to be 14-deoxy-12-(creatinine-5-yl)-andrographolide-19-O--D-glucuronide A (Metabolite 1) and 14-deoxy-12-(creatinine-5-yl)-andrographolide-19-O--D-glucuronide B (Metabolite 2) by means of spectroscopic evidences. 4. It is for the first time that the formation of creatinine adducts as a novel metabolic pathway is reported. The mechanism was presumed that -carbon (C-12) of , -unsaturated carbonyl was attacked by a 5-anion intermediate of creatinine formed through elimination of a proton, followed by the double bond migration from 12(13) to 13(14) and elimination of the hydroxyl group at C-14.
17989978	A Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of selenomethionine in combination with a fixed dose of irinotecan in solid tumors.	We conducted a phase I study to determine the recommended dose of selenomethionine (SLM) in combination with irinotecan that consistently results in a protective plasma selenium (Se) concentrations > 15 microM after 1 week of SLM loading. A 3-3 standard escalation design was followed. SLM was given orally twice daily (BID) for one week (loading) followed by continuous once daily (QD) dosing (maintenance). Seven dose levels of selenomethionine were investigated. Irinotecan was given intravenously at a fixed standard weekly dose, starting on the first day of maintenance SLM. Thirty-one patients were treated on study. Dose limiting diarrhea complicated by sepsis was noted in one of six patients at each of the dose-levels 1 and 7. Dose-levels > or = 5 (4,800 mcg/dose loading maintenance) resulted in day 8 Se concentrations >15 microM while dose-level 7 (7,200 mcg/dose loading and maintenance) resulted in day 8 Se concentrations > 20 muM. No significant variations in SN-38 or biliary index were noted between weeks 1 and 4 of treatment. Despite achieving target Se concentrations, gastrointestinal and bone marrow toxicities were common and irinotecan dose modification was prevalent. Objective responses were seen in two patients and nine patients had disease control for 6 months or longer. Selenomethionine can be escalated safely to 7,200 mcg BID x 1 week followed by 7,200 mcg QD in combination with a standard dose of irinotecan. No major protection against irinotecan toxicity was established; however, interesting clinical benefits were noted-supporting the investigation of this combination in future efficacy trials.
1740536	The pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen in younger and elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	The pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen (Ansaid Tablets, Upjohn Company of Canada, Don Mills, Ontario) were evaluated in both younger (40 to 60 years) and elderly (65 to 83 years) rheumatoid arthritic patients after both a 100-mg single-dose administration and at steady state during a 100-mg twice-a-day dosage regimen. Both flurbiprofen plasma concentration-time profiles and the urinary excretion of flurbiprofen and its major metabolites were evaluated. The results indicate that the pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen are linear in both age groups based on only minor changes between single-dose and steady-state parameter determinations and the agreement between calculated and predicted accumulation values in plasma concentrations. Only minor differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters were observed between the younger and elderly patients. Only free flurbiprofen clearance was found to have a significant but variable correlation to patient age. The effect of flurbiprofen on the urinary excretion of two prostaglandins were also evaluated throughout this study. In both age groups, the maximum decrease in urinary excretion was observed after the first dose, and this effect was maintained throughout the remainder of the study. Percent decreases from baseline in urinary excretion during drug administration were similar for both age groups. Similar side-effect profiles were observed between age groups.
15935823	Urinary t,t-muconic acid, S-phenylmercapturic acid and benzene as biomarkers of low benzene exposure.	This research compared the capability of urinary trans,trans-muconic acid (t,t-MA), S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and benzene excreted in urine (U-benzene) to monitor low benzene exposure and evaluated the influence of smoking habit on these indices. Gasoline attendants, urban policemen, bus drivers and two groups of referents working in two large Italian cities (415 people) were studied. Median benzene exposure was 61, 22, 21, 9 and 6 microg/m3, respectively, with higher levels in workers than in referents. U-benzene, but not t,t-MA and S-PMA, showed an exposure-related increase. All the biomarkers were strongly influenced by cigarette smoking, with values up to five-fold higher in smokers compared to non-smokers. In conclusion, in the range of investigated benzene exposure (<478 microg/m3 or <0.15 ppm), the smoking habit may be regarded as a major source of benzene intake; among the study indices, U-benzene is the marker of choice for the biological monitoring of occupational and environmental exposure.
17979105	Evaluation of propolis polyphenols absorption in humans by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry.	Propolis has various biological activities such as antibacterial, antiviral, antioxidant, immunostimulating and antiinflammatory, which are generally ascribed to the polyphenolic fraction. The aim of this study was to evaluate the absorption of the main polyphenols [caffeic acid (CA), pinobanksin-5methyl ether (P-5ME), pinobanksin (Pb), chrysin (C), pinocembrin (P), galangin (G), pinobanksin-3-acetate, pinobanksin esters and caffeic acid phenylethyl ester (CAPE)] from a dewaxed and standardized extract of propolis (EPID). Fifteen healthy volunteers consumed 5 mL EPID in water, corresponding to 125 mg of flavonoids. Blood samples were collected before, each hour for 8 h and 24 h after EPID intake. After deconjugation by beta-glucuronidase/sulfatase the plasma samples were analyzed by a selective liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method using morin as internal standard (I.S.). A kinetic profile characterized by two t(max), respectively at 1 h and about 5 h post-ingestion, was observed in all the subjects. The two peaks may be due to enterohepatic cycling. Among the various polyphenols ingested, only P-5ME, Pb, C, P and G were detected in plasma and C(max)t(1h) were 65.7 +/- 13.3, 46.5 +/- 12.7, 79.5 +/- 18.6, 168.1 +/- 16.3 and 113.7 +/- 16.8 ng/mL, respectively. These levels decreased significantly after 8 h and were no longer detectable 24 h after EPID intake. The recovery of the extraction for CA, Pb, C, P, G and I.S. from spiked plasma was 95.2 +/- 3.1, 93.1 +/- 3.6, 91 +/- 2.5, 96.4 +/- 4.2, 93.4 +/- 2.4 and 85.5 +/- 2.4%, respectively. The results of this study evidence that flavonoids from EPID are absorbed, metabolized and Pb-5ME and G seem to have apparent absorption, measured as (AUC/dose), higher than C, P and Pb.
20019245	Metabolism and excretion of the novel bioreductive prodrug PR-104 in mice, rats, dogs, and humans.	PR-104 is the phosphate ester of a 3,5-dinitrobenzamide nitrogen mustard (PR-104A) that is reduced to active hydroxylamine and amine metabolites by reductases in tumors. In this study, we evaluate the excretion of [(3)H]PR-104 in mice and determine its metabolite profile in mice, rats, dogs, and humans after a single intravenous dose. Total radioactivity was rapidly and quantitatively excreted in mice, with cumulative excretion of 46% in urine and 50% in feces. The major urinary metabolites in mice were products from oxidative N-dealkylation and/or glutathione conjugation of the nitrogen mustard moiety, including subsequent mercapturic acid pathway metabolites. A similar metabolite profile was seen in mouse bile, mouse plasma, and rat urine and plasma. Dogs and humans also showed extensive thiol conjugation but little evidence of N-dealkylation. Humans, like rodents, showed appreciable reduced metabolites in plasma, but concentrations of the cytotoxic amine metabolite (PR-104M) were higher in mice than humans. The most conspicuous difference in metabolite profile was the much more extensive O-beta-glucuronidation of PR-104A in dogs and humans than in rodents. The structure of the O-beta-glucuronide (PR-104G) was confirmed by independent synthesis. Its urinary excretion was responsible for 13 +/- 2% of total dose in humans but only 0.8 +/- 0.1% in mice. Based on these metabolite profiles, biotransformation of PR-104 in rodents is markedly different from that in humans, suggesting that rodents may not be appropriate for modeling human biotransformation and toxicology of PR-104.
19060478	A pilot human evaluation of a formulation of irinotecan and hyaluronic acid in 5-fluorouracil-refractory metastatic colorectal cancer patients.	Preclinical data demonstrate that the polysaccharide hyaluronic acid (HA) acts as a macromolecular carrier for chemotherapeutic drugs. In these studies the formulation of HA and irinotecan reduced treatment-related toxicity and improved efficacy via the preferential delivery of irinotecan to the tumor and lymph nodes. This study was designed as a first-in-man investigation of the safety and pharmacokinetics of irinotecan when administered within the HA-Irinotecan formulation. 5-Fluorouracil refractory metastatic colorectal cancer patients were intravenously treated with HA-Irinotecan (300 mg/m(2) irinotecan with 1,000 mg/m(2) HA) on day 1 of a 21-day cycle. After safety was demonstrated, the irinotecan dose was increased to 350 mg/m(2) with maintenance of the HA at 1,000 mg/m(2). Twelve patients were treated with HA-Irinotecan. Overall toxicity was low, with an 8 and 17% incidence of grade lll/lV diarrhea and neutropenia, respectively. No grade III/IV nausea or vomiting was observed. Seventeen percent of patients had a partial response and 50% experienced stable disease, indicating that the efficacy of the irinotecan was maintained. Median survival was 16.6 months, while median progression-free survival was 6.2 months. HA-Irinotecan containing standard doses of irinotecan can be safely administered to patients. Comparison to historical irinotecan data suggests HA-Irinotecan may have a greater margin of safety without compromising anticancer activity.
9188831	Determination of the halothane metabolites trifluoroacetic acid and bromide in plasma and urine by ion chromatography.	Halothane (CF3CHClBr), a widely used volatile anesthetic, undergoes extensive biotransformation in humans. Oxidative halothane metabolism yields the stable metabolites trifluoroacetic acid and bromide which can be detected in plasma and urine. To date, analytical methodologies have either required extensive sample preparation, or two separate analytical procedures to determine plasma and urine concentrations of these analytes. A rapid and sensitive method utilizing high-performance liquid chromatography-ion chromatography (HPLC-IC) with suppressed conductivity detection was developed for the simultaneous detection of both trifluoroacetic acid and bromide in plasma and urine. Sample preparation required only ultrafiltration. Standard curves were linear (r2> or =0.99) from 10 to 250 microM trifluoroacetic acid and 2 to 5000 microM bromide in plasma and 10 to 250 microM trifluoroacetic acid and 2 to 50 microM bromide in urine. The assay was applied to quantification of trifluoroacetic acid and bromide in plasma and urine of a patient undergoing halothane anesthesia.
2605068	Concentrations of atracurium and laudanosine in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma during intracranial surgery.	Concentrations of atracurium and laudanosine in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma were assayed in nine patients receiving atracurium infusions of 111-251 min duration to maintain neuromuscular block during intracranial surgery. The total dose of atracurium was 1.57-2.60 mg kg-1 and the plasma concentration of atracurium was 1.27-5.44 micrograms ml-1. Concentrations of laudanosine in CSF and plasma increased during the infusion period, and after 125-140 min reached means of 202.5 ng ml-1 and 1448.7 ng ml-1, respectively. The highest recorded concentration of laudanosine in CSF was 570 ng ml-1, in one of two CSF samples found to contain atracurium. After operation, two patients had fits, but these were not thought to be related to laudanosine. It is concluded that during infusion of atracurium, laudanosine accumulates in both plasma and CSF.
17289327	Simultaneous and rapid quantitation of benazepril and benazeprilat in human plasma by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection.	A sensitive and accurate high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with ultraviolet (UV) detector was developed and validated for simultaneous determination of benazepril (BZL) and its active metabolite, benazeprilat (BZT), in human plasma. The plasma sample, after spiked with riluzole as an internal standard (IS), was subjected to a solid-phase extraction (SPE) prior to a HPLC analysis. Chromatographic separations were achieved on a Hypersil BDS C(18) (300 mm x 4.6mm, 5 microm). The mobile phase consisted of phosphate buffer (pH 2.6; 10mM) and acetonitrile mixture in a gradient mode. Detection was carried out at a wavelength of 237 nm. The retention times of BZL, BZT and IS were at about 6.2, 15.4 and 16.2 min, respectively. The calibration curve was linear in the range of 20-2000 ng/mL for both BZL and BZT (r(2)>0.997). At three quality control concentrations of 100, 500, and 1500 ng/mL, the intra-day and inter-day relative standard deviation ranged from 2.8 to 8.6% for BZL and from 2.2 to 8.5% for BZT, while the mean absolute percentage error ranged from -7.5 to 6.7% for BZL and from -6.0 to 3.2% for BZT. The limit of detection (LOD) was 10 ng/mL and the limit of quantification (LOQ) was 20 ng/mL for both BZL and BZT in human plasma. The method was successfully applied to bioequivalence evaluation of benazepril hydrochloride formulations in healthy Chinese.
16529613	Changes in the disposition of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites during pregnancy and the puerperium.	To determine potential changes in the plasma concentrations of oxcarbazepine (OXC) and its metabolites during pregnancy and puerperium. Five women receiving OXC monotherapy were followed prospectively during pregnancy and the puerperium. Four women were enrolled in the first trimester, and one woman, 2 weeks before delivery. Steady-state concentrations of OXC, its active R-(-)- and S-(+)-monohydroxy derivatives (MHD), and the additional metabolite carbamazepine-10,11-trans-dihydrodiol (DHD) were measured at regular intervals by an enantioselective HPLC assay. RESULTS. In all samples, S-(+)-MHD was the most abundant compound in plasma and accounted almost entirely for the amount of active moiety (defined as the molar sum of OXC, R-(-)-MHD, and S-(+)-MHD) found in the circulation. The dose-normalized concentrations of active moiety decreased markedly during gestation and, in four of the five patients, increased strikingly after delivery. Plasma concentrations of S-(+)-MHD mirrored closely the levels of the active moiety. Plasma concentrations of the parent drug and other metabolites also tended to decrease during pregnancy and to increase after delivery. During treatment with OXC, S-(+)-MHD is by far the most abundant active compound in plasma. The concentration of this metabolite as well as the active moiety may decrease markedly during pregnancy and may increase severalfold after delivery. Because of these striking pharmacokinetic changes, the clinical response should be monitored closely in OXC-treated women throughout pregnancy and the puerperium.
18548464	Nonclinical pharmacokinetics of BMS-292655, a water-soluble prodrug of the antifungal ravuconazole.	The phosphate ester, BMS-292655, was developed as a water-soluble prodrug of the antifungal agent, ravuconazole (BMS-207147). BMS-292655 was comparatively stable in rat, beagle dog, cynomolgus monkey and human plasma, but was hydrolysed upon incubation with liver S9 preparations from all species. The major product in rat, monkey and human S9 was BMS-207147, while in dog S9, the intermediate ester, BMS-300043, predominated. BMS-300043 itself was more stable in dog S9 than in S9 preparations from the other species. Intravenous administration of BMS-292655 to rats, beagle dogs and cynomolgus monkeys indicated species differences in the extent of formation of BMS-207147 (monkeys>rats>dogs). The lower overall generation of BMS-207147 in dogs was consistent with the presence of circulating plasma levels of BMS-300043. BMS-300043 was present in monkey plasma but not detectable in rat plasma. The conversion of BMS-292655 to BMS-207147 in the presence of human S9 indicated the potential for BMS-292655 to function as a BMS-207147 prodrug in humans. The similarity in the hydrolysis of BMS-292655 when incubated with human and monkey S9 in vitro, coupled with the effective release of BMS-207147 from BMS-292655 upon i.v. administration to monkeys, is consistent with this conclusion.
20664537	Pharmacokinetics of oltipraz and its major metabolite (RM) in patients with liver fibrosis or cirrhosis: relationship with suppression of circulating TGF-beta1.	Oltipraz is a potential candidate drug for the treatment of liver fibrosis (LF) and liver cirrhosis (LC). The pharmacokinetics of oltipraz and its major rearranged metabolite (7-methyl-6,8-bis(methylthio)H-pyrrolo[1,2-a]pyrazine (RM)) were evaluated after single-dose (30-90 mg) and multiple-dose (60 mg b.i.d. or 90 mg q.d. for 24 weeks) oral administration of oltipraz to patients with LF or LC. Oltipraz was safe and well tolerated in both studies. In the single-dose study, the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), peak plasma concentration (C(max)), and terminal half-life (t(1/2)) of oltipraz as well as the AUC of its RM were dose dependent. Oltipraz was rapidly absorbed; the time to reach C(max) (T(max)) was 2-4 h. The conversion of oltipraz to RM was also rapid and substantial (AUC of RM from time 0 to the last measured concentration (AUC(last, RM))/AUC(last, oltipraz), 42-61%). In the multiple-dose study, the level of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) (a blood fibrosis marker) was suppressed at steady-state plasma concentrations of approximately 20-60 ng/ml of oltipraz or of approximately 60-140 ng/ml of oltipraz plus RM. Overall, the pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy of oltipraz suggest that it may be helpful in the treatment of patients with LF or LC, at an optimal dosing regimen.
19756558	Eltrombopag, an oral thrombopoietin receptor agonist, has no impact on the pharmacokinetic profile of probe drugs for cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 in healthy men: a cocktail analysis.	It is likely that the thrombopoietin receptor agonist eltrombopag will be administered concomitantly with other medications in the treatment of thrombocytopenia. Therefore the potential for eltrombopag to interact with cytochrome P450 activity was investigated. Twenty-four healthy men received eltrombopag 75 mg/day on days 3-9, midazolam 5 mg (a probe for CYP3A4) on days 1 and 8 and a probe cocktail on days 2 and 9 that included caffeine 100 mg (CYP1A2), flurbiprofen 50 mg (CYP2C9) and omeprazole 20 mg (CYP2C19). Midazolam pharmacokinetic parameters were comparable before and after eltrombopag administration; geometric least squares (GLS) mean ratio (90% confidence intervals, CI) area under the curve from zero to infinity (AUC(0-infinity)) was 1.03 (0.94,1.12) and maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) was 0.98 (0.86,1.07). Metabolic indices for other CYP isozymes were also equivalent before and after eltrombopag. GLS mean ratio (90% CI) for the paraxanthine:caffeine concentration ratio at 8 h postdose was 0.97 (0.92,1.03), for conjugated + unconjugated and unconjugated 4-hydroxy-flurbiprofen recovery in urine over 0-8 h was 0.95 (0.93,0.97) and 0.93 (0.88,0.98), respectively, and for the plasma omeprazole:5-hydroxyomeprazole concentration ratio at 2- and 3-h postdose was 1.00 (0.93,1.08) and 1.02 (0.88,1.18), respectively. Once-daily administration of eltrombopag 75 mg for 7 days did not alter CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 activity in healthy volunteers.
18420784	Metabolism and disposition of dasatinib after oral administration to humans.	SPRYCEL (dasatinib, BMS-354825; Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ), a multiple kinase inhibitor, is currently approved to treat chronic myelogenous leukemia and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia tumors in patients who are resistant or intolerant to imatinib mesylate (Gleevec; Novartis, Basel, Switzerland). After a 100-mg single p.o. dose of [(14)C]dasatinib to healthy volunteers, the radioactivity was rapidly absorbed (T(max) approximately 0.5 h). Both dasatinib and total radioactivity (TRA) plasma concentrations decreased rapidly with elimination half-life values of <4 h. Dasatinib was the major drug-related component in human plasma. At 2 h, dasatinib accounted for 25% of the TRA in plasma, suggesting that metabolites contributed significantly to the total drug-related component. There were many circulating metabolites detected that included hydroxylated metabolites (M20 and M24), an N-dealkylated metabolite (M4), an N-oxide (M5), an acid metabolite (M6), glucuronide conjugates (M8a,b), and products of further metabolism of these primary metabolites. Most of the administered radioactivity was eliminated in the feces (85%). Urine recovery accounted for <4% of the dose. Dasatinib accounted for <1 and 19% of the dose in urine and feces, respectively, suggesting that dasatinib was well absorbed after p.o. administration and extensively metabolized before being eliminated from the body. The exposures of pharmacologically active metabolites M4, M5, M6, M20, and M24 in patients, along with their cell-based IC(50) for Src and Bcr-Abl kinase inhibition, suggested that these metabolites were not expected to contribute significantly toward in vivo activity.
22184458	Metabolism and pharmacokinetics of morinidazole in humans: identification of diastereoisomeric morpholine N+-glucuronides catalyzed by UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1A9.	Morinidazole [R,S-1-(2-methyl-5-nitro-1H-imidazol-1-yl)-3-morpholinopropan-2-ol] is a new 5-nitroimidazole class antimicrobial agent. The present study aimed to determine the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of morinidazole in humans and to identify the enzymes responsible for the formation of the major metabolites. Plasma and urine samples were collected before and after an intravenous drip infusion of 500 mg of racemic morinidazole. Ultraperformance liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed 10 metabolites. Morinidazole glucuronidation, followed by renal excretion, was the major elimination pathway, accounting for 35% of the dose. The metabolic pathway displayed regioselectivities and stereoselectivities. Unexpectedly, the nitrogen atom of the morpholine ring, rather than the aliphatic hydroxyl group at the side chain, was glucuronidated to form S-morinidazole glucuronide (M8-1) and R-enantiomer glucuronide (M8-2). The plasma exposure of M8-2 was 6-fold higher than that of M8-1, accounting for 22.9 and 3.96% of the parent drug exposure, respectively. Investigation of morinidazole glucuronidation using human liver microsomes (HLMs) and 12 recombinant UDP glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) indicated that this biotransformation was mainly catalyzed by UGT1A9. A kinetic study showed that N(+)-glucuronidation of racemic morinidazole in both HLMs and in UGT1A9 obeyed a typical Michaelis-Menten plot. The K(m) values for M8-1 and M8-2 formation by HLMs were similar (11.3 and 15.1 mM), but the V(max) values were significantly different (111 and 1660 pmol  min(-1)  mg protein(-1)). Overall, after an intravenous administration, morinidazole and its metabolites were eliminated in humans primarily via renal excretion. The major metabolites were two diastereoisomeric N(+)-glucuronides, and UGT1A9 played an important role in N(+)-glucuronidation.
15935805	Protein adducts as biomarkers of human benzene metabolism.	We used cysteinyl adducts of serum albumin (Alb) to investigate the production of two reactive benzene metabolites, namely, benzene oxide (BO) and 1,4-benzoquinone (1,4-BQ) in workers exposed to benzene. Adducts were measured in 160 benzene-exposed workers who did not use respiratory protection (based upon individual geometric mean benzene exposure levels: median=5.27 ppm, interquartile range=2.14-13.4 ppm, range=0.074-328 ppm) and 101 local controls, from populations in Shanghai and Tianjin, China. After isolation of Alb, these adducts (designated as BO-Alb and 1,4-BQ-Alb) were cleaved from the protein with methanesulfonic acid and trifluoroacetic anhydride and measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Although BO-Alb and 1,4-BQ-Alb were measured in all subjects, levels of both adducts were 2.4-fold greater (median value) in exposed subjects than in controls (interquartile-fold range=1.63-4.05 for BO-Alb and 1.64-3.69 for 1,4-BQ-Alb). Log-log plots of the individual adduct levels versus exposure were quasi-linear with straight-line slopes of about 0.3 for both BO-Alb and 1,4-BQ-Alb. Since these log-space slopes were significantly less than one, we infer that adduct production was nonlinear, i.e., less-than proportional to benzene exposure, over the indicated range. This behavior points to saturation of CYP2E1 as a critical metabolic consequence of high exposure to benzene in humans. Thus, the biologically effective dose of BO and 1,4-BQ should be proportionally greater in persons exposed to low rather than high levels of benzene.
22338034	Pharmacokinetic characterization of amrubicin cardiac safety in an ex vivo human myocardial strip model. II. Amrubicin shows metabolic advantages over doxorubicin and epirubicin.	Anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity correlates with cardiac anthracycline accumulation and bioactivation to secondary alcohol metabolites or reactive oxygen species (ROS), such as superoxide anion (O) and hydrogen peroxide HO). We reported that in an ex vivo human myocardial strip model, 3 or 10 M amrubicin [(7S,9S)-9-acetyl-9-amino-7-[(2-deoxy--D-erythro-pentopyranosyl)oxy]-7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-6,11-dihydroxy-5,12-napthacenedione hydrochloride] accumulated to a lower level compared with equimolar doxorubicin or epirubicin (J Pharmacol Exp Ther 341:464-473, 2012). We have characterized how amrubicin converted to ROS or secondary alcohol metabolite in comparison with doxorubicin (that formed both toxic species) or epirubicin (that lacked ROS formation and showed an impaired conversion to alcohol metabolite). Amrubicin and doxorubicin partitioned to mitochondria and caused similar elevations of HO, but the mechanisms of HO formation were different. Amrubicin produced HO by enzymatic reduction-oxidation of its quinone moiety, whereas doxorubicin acted by inducing mitochondrial uncoupling. Moreover, mitochondrial aconitase assays showed that 3 M amrubicin caused an O-dependent reversible inactivation, whereas doxorubicin always caused an irreversible inactivation. Low concentrations of amrubicin therefore proved similar to epirubicin in sparing mitochondrial aconitase from irreversible inactivation. The soluble fraction of human myocardial strips converted doxorubicin and epirubicin to secondary alcohol metabolites that irreversibly inactivated cytoplasmic aconitase; in contrast, strips exposed to amrubicin failed to generate its secondary alcohol metabolite, amrubicinol, and only occasionally exhibited an irreversible inactivation of cytoplasmic aconitase. This was caused by competing pathways that favored formation and complete or near-to-complete elimination of 9-deaminoamrubicinol. These results characterize amrubicin metabolic advantages over doxorubicin and epirubicin, which may correlate with amrubicin cardiac safety in preclinical or clinical settings.
15764411	Metabolic disposition of gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in rat, dog and man.	Following oral administration of [14C]-gefitinib to albino and pigmented rats, radioactivity was widely and rapidly distributed, with the highest levels being found in liver, kidney, lung and gastrointestinal tract, but with only low levels penetrating the brain. Levels of radioactivity persisted in melanin-containing tissues (pigmented eye and skin). Binding to plasma proteins was high (86-94%) across the range of species examined and was 91% in human plasma. Substantial binding occurred to both human serum albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein. Following oral and intravenous administration of [14C]-gefitinib, excretion of radioactivity by rat, dog and human occurred predominantly via the bile into faeces, with < 7% of the dose being eliminated in urine. In all three species, gefitinib was cleared primarily by metabolism. In rat, morpholine ring oxidation was the major route of metabolism, leading to the formation of M537194 and M608236 as the main biliary metabolites. Morpholine ring oxidation, together with production of M523595 by O-demethylation of the quinazoline moiety, were the predominant pathways in dog, with oxidative defluorination also occurring to a lesser degree. Pathways in healthy human volunteers were similar to dog, with O-demethylation and morpholine ring oxidation representing the major routes of metabolism.
16278192	In vitro microsomal metabolic studies on a selective mGluR5 antagonist MTEP: characterization of in vitro metabolites and identification of a novel thiazole ring opening aldehyde metabolite.	In vitro liver microsomal studies revealed that [14C] MTEP (3-[2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl] pyridine) was metabolized into three major oxidative metabolites. Metabolite 1 (M1) was shown to be a hydroxymethyl metabolite; M2 was shown to be a pyridine oxide. Moreover, a novel aldehyde metabolite (M3) was identified from mouse liver microsomes. The structure of the aldehyde M3 was elucidated by LC/MS/MS. In addition, methoxyamine, an aldehyde-trapping agent, and accurate mass measurement using a high-resolution quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) instrument, were used to confirm the proposed thiazole ring-opening structure of M3. A mechanism for aldehyde M3 formation was postulated based on MTEP incubation studies with 18O2 and H2 18O using mouse liver microsomes. MTEP was initially oxidized at sulfur, followed by subsequent C4-C5 of thiazole epoxidation, thiozole ring opening and further oxidative desulfation. This proposed thiazole ring-opening mechanism might represent a novel metabolism pathway for xenobiotics containing a thiazole moiety. Species differences in the metabolism of MTEP were observed in mouse, rat, dog, monkey and human liver microsomes. Mouse appears to generate all three oxidative metabolites to a greater extent than other species examined.
17646282	In vitro prediction and in vivo verification of enantioselective human tofisopam metabolite profiles.	In vitro studies were conducted to elucidate the metabolic profiles of and the enzymes responsible for the metabolism of (R)- and (S)-tofisopam (1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-5-ethyl-7,8-dimethoxy-4-methyl-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine). Large differences were observed between the two enantiomers. The major metabolite in incubations of 500 ng/ml (approximately 1.3 microM) (R)-tofisopam in human liver microsomes corresponded to demethylation of the methoxy group at the 4-position of the phenyl ring (M3). Incubating (R)-tofisopam with recombinant cytochrome P450 (P450) or with human liver microsomes and isoform-selective P450 chemical inhibitors indicated that M3 was primarily catalyzed by CYP2C9. Similar incubations with S-tofisopam indicated that the primary metabolite was due to demethylation of the methoxy group at the 7-position of the benzodiazepine ring (M1), and this reaction was catalyzed primarily by CYP3A4. The primary metabolites of both enantiomers were further demethylated to form a common didemethylated metabolite (M5) where the methoxy groups at positions 4 and 7 are demethylated. Analysis of plasma and urine samples from human clinical trials confirmed the in vitro observations. Subjects orally treated with 200 mg b.i.d. (R)-tofisopam had a 2-h M1/M3 plasma ratio of 1:29 and a ratio of 1:123 in urine, whereas patients orally administered (S)-tofisopam at 150 mg/kg t.i.d. had opposite M1 to M3 ratios of 8:1 in plasma and 6:1 in urine.
8866919	Stereoselective sulphate conjugation of salbutamol by human lung and bronchial epithelial cells.	1. The metabolism of (+)-, (-)- and (+/-)-salbutamol by sulphoconjugation was determined in vitro using human lung cytosol and bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cell homogenate. 2. For the lungs the intrinsic clearance (Vmax/Km) value for the pharmacologically active (-)-salbutamol (0.49 +/- 0.32 ml min-1 g-1 protein) exceeded that of (+)-salbutamol (0.046 +/- 0.028 ml min-1 g-1 protein) by 11-fold. This was mainly due to a difference in Km value, which was 16 times higher for (+)-salbutamol (1300 +/- 170 microM) than for (-)-salbutamol (83 +/- 12 microM). 3. The stereoselectivity of sulphoconjugation of salbutamol was very similar in the BEAS-2B cells, although the absolute activity was considerably lower. 4. The enzyme catalyzing this reaction both in the lungs and in the BEAS-2B cells was the monoamine (M) form phenolsulphotransferase. 5. These observations emphasize that the smooth muscle of the bronchi most likely are exposed to considerably higher concentrations of the potentially toxic (+)-enantiomer than of the bronchodilating (-)-enantiomer during therapy with (+/-)-salbutamol.
22022867	Investigation of the metabolism of rufinamide and its interaction with valproate.	Rufinamide was evaluated in vitro to determine which enzyme(s) are responsible for rufinamide hydrolysis and whether valproate, one of its metabolites (valproyl-CoA), and/or the rufinamide hydrolysis product (CGP 47292) could inhibit hydrolysis. Rufinamide hydrolysis was mediated primarily by human carboxylesterase (hCE) 1 and was nonsaturable up to 500 M. Two-thirds of rufinamide hydrolysis was estimated to occur in human microsomes and one-third in cytosol. Valproate was a selective inhibitor for hCE1 compared to hCE2 and inhibition had a greater impact on rufinamide hydrolysis in microsomes than in cytosol. Valproyl-CoA caused similar inhibition of rufinamide hydrolysis in both microsomes and cytosol. Carboxylesterases were not significantly inhibited by CGP 47292. Inhibition of in vitro rufinamide hydrolysis by valproate could offer an explanation for the observed in vivo drug-drug interaction between the two antiepileptic drugs.
16839466	Measurement of benzylmercapturic acid in human urine by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry.	A method based on liquid chromatography (reversed-phase)-electrospray (negative) ionization-tandem triple quadrupole mass spectrometry [LC-ESI(-)-MS-MS], in the multiple reaction monitoring mode, was developed for determination of urinary benzylmercapturic acid (BMA). Isotope dilution through introduction of (13)C(6)-labeled BMA was employed as an internal standard, achieving intra- and interrun precision ranges of 2.32-2.95% and 2.24-4.97%, respectively. The calibration curve obtained with BMA-spiked blank human urine was linear from 0.5-120.0 microg/L; the correlation coefficient of the calibration curve was 0.999. The method limit of quantification was 0.5 microg/L; mean BMA recovery was 97.56%. The analytical method was used to analyze urine samples collected from workers involved in the manufacture of adhesive tape who had been exposed to toluene. The method appears to provide sensitive, specific, and reliable testing for urinary BMA to determine occupational exposure to toluene.
16291713	Bioavailability and metabolism of prochlorperazine administered via the buccal and oral delivery route.	Prochlorperazine has been accepted as an effective antiemetic for more than 50 years; however, its therapeutic success has been limited by its low and variable absorption and high first-pass metabolism. A buccal dosage form of prochlorperazine has been developed. This article discusses 2 clinical studies conducted to characterize the single-dose and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of prochlorperazine and its metabolites after buccal administration. The results of these studies demonstrate that buccal administration of prochlorperazine produces plasma concentrations more than twice as high as an oral tablet, with less than half the variability. In addition to the metabolites, N-desmethyl prochlorperazine and prochlorperazine sulfoxide, 2 new metabolites, prochlorperazine 7-hydroxide and prochlorperazine sulfoxide 4'-N-oxide, were identified and quantitated. Exposure to metabolites after the buccal prochlorperazine formulation was approximately half that observed after the oral tablet. Buccal administration of prochlorperazine, twice daily, should enhance the therapeutic role of prochlorperazine in preventing and treating nausea and vomiting.
18508947	Single-dose pharmacokinetics of roflumilast in children and adolescents.	Roflumilast is an orally administered phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor that has potential for use in pediatric patients with asthma. The pharmacokinetics of roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide were examined in adolescents and children with stable mild to moderate asthma in an open-label crossover study with age-stratification and 2 treatment periods (100-microg dose in period 1, 250-microg dose in period 2) separated by a washout period. Plasma concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined using standard noncompartmental methods and compared between study groups and within the entire cohort. Roflumilast was well tolerated. Linear relationships were evident for dose and area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity for both roflumilast (r(2) = 0.36, P < .01) and roflumilast N-oxide (r(2) = 0.39, P < .01). With the exception of dose-normalized maximum plasma concentration (mean 1.1 and 0.8 microg/L per 1 microg/kg dose for adolescents and children, respectively), pharmacokinetic parameters for roflumilast and roflumilast N-oxide were not different between age groups and were similar to adults.
18028863	S-(4-Nitrophenacyl)glutathione is a specific substrate for glutathione transferase omega 1-1.	Glutathione transferase omega 1-1 (GSTO1-1) catalyzes the biotransformation of arsenic and is implicated as a factor influencing the age-at-onset of Alzheimer's disease and the posttranslational activation of interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta). Investigation of the biological role of GSTO1-1 variants has been hampered by the lack of a specific assay for GSTO1-1 activity in tissue samples that contain other GSTs and other enzymes with similar catalytic specificities. Previous studies (P. G. Board and M. W. Anders, Chem. Res. Toxicol. 20 (2007) 149-154) have shown that GSTO1-1 catalyzes the reduction of S-(phenacyl)glutathiones to acetophenones. A new substrate, S-(4-nitrophenacyl)glutathione (4NPG), has been prepared and found to have a high turnover with GSTO1-1 but negligible activity with GSTO2-2 and other members of the glutathione transferase superfamily. A spectrophotometric assay with 4NPG as a substrate has been used to determine GSTO1-1 activity in several human breast cancer cell lines and in mouse liver and brain tissues.
16133797	Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of Bay 38-3441, a camptothecin glycoconjugate, administered as a 30-minute infusion daily for five days every 3 weeks in patients with advanced solid malignancies.	Bay 38-3441 is a camptothecin glycoconjugate which stabilizes the active lactone form of camptothecin and allows selective uptake into tumor cells. We conducted a phase I study of Bay 38-3441 administered as a 30-minute infusion daily for five consecutive days every 21 days. Thirty-one patients were enrolled at 8 dose levels. Most common nonhematologic side effects were diarrhea (29%), vomiting (19%), nausea (19%), lethargy (13%), and abdominal pain (10%). The main hematologic toxicity was prolonged neutropenia. Nine patients had a best response of stable disease with a median duration of 2.7 months (range: 2.3-20.6 months). The study was closed without reaching the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) due to excessive toxicity in a companion trial resulting in termination of development of this agent. Bay 38-3441 was well tolerated in this study with granulocytopenia as the main hematologic toxicity. This study showed that glycoconjugation is a feasible delivery technique for camptothecin.
22012257	Relationship of drug metabolizing enzyme genotype to plasma levels as well as myelotoxicity of cyclophosphamide in breast cancer patients.	The cytotoxic drug cyclophosphamide (CP) is bioactivated into 4-hydroxy-cyclophosphamide (4-OH-CP) through cytochrome P450 enzymes and cleared through aldehyde dehydrogenase and glutathione S-transferase. This prospective study analyzes the influence of drug metabolizing enzyme genotype on (1) plasma 4-OH-CP:CP ratio and (2) myelotoxicity in breast cancer patients on 500mg/m(2) cyclophosphamide. Sixty-eight female breast cancer patients on FAC (fluorouracil, adriamycin, cyclophosphamide) were included. Genotyping of cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A5, aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH3A1), and glutathione S-transferase (GSTA1) was done either through RFLP or pyrosequencing. Plasma CP and 4-OH-CP were measured immediately and 1 and 2h after the end of infusion through LC-MS. The leukocyte count was determined on day 10 and 20 after chemotherapy. At CP dose of 500mg/m(2), the 4-OH-CP:CP ratio was negatively affected by CYP2C19*2 genotype (p=0.039) showing a gene-dose effect. Moreover ALDH3A1*2 genotype increased 4-OH-CP:CP ratio (p=0.037). These effects did not remain significant in a univariate analysis of variance including all genotypes. GSTA1*B carriers were at increased risk of severe leucopenia (OR 6.94; 95% CI 1.75-27.6, p=0.006). The myelotoxicity in patients receiving FAC is related to the activity of the phase-II enzyme GSTA1 but is independent of the formation of 4-OH-CP.
11129071	Sensitive and specific high-performance liquid chromatographic assay for 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen and flurbiprofen in human urine and plasma.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic assay has been developed for the simultaneous quantitation of flurbiprofen and its major metabolite, 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen, in urine and plasma. No extraction procedure was necessary for analysis of these compounds, which reduced time involved in sample preparation. The analytes were separated on a Brownlee Spheri-5 C18 column with a mobile phase of acetonitrile-20 mM dibasic potassium phosphate pH 3 buffer (40:60, v/v). Fluorescence detection was utilized with an excitation wavelength of 260 nm and an emission wavelength of 320 nm, providing excellent sensitivity. The limit of quantitation for 4'-hydroxyflurbiprofen and flurbiprofen was 0.25 microg/ml in urine and 0.05 microg/ml and 0.25 microg/ml, respectively, in plasma. All components were eluted within 16 min. Intra-day, inter-day, freeze-thaw, and in process stability were tested for both compounds and the coefficient of variation was less than 14% in all cases. This method provides a sensitive and specific assay for the detection of flurbiprofen and 4'-hydoxyflurbiprofen in urine and plasma and is suitable for use in in vivo studies evaluating the regulation of CYP2C9 activity.
3477455	Methotrexate test-dose protocol in the presence of 7-hydroxy-methotrexate.	Methotrexate (MTX) and 7-hydroxy-methotrexate (7-OH-MTX) plasma concentration-time curves (AUC) have been analyzed in 24 patients after different routes of MTX administration. After an i.v. bolus (50 mg/m2), the AUC for 7-OH-MTX is correlated with that for MTX and inversely correlated with the MTX plasma clearance. When MTX is administered with plasma steady level standardization, using the test-dose protocol, at a level of 10(-5) M over 36 hr (10(-5), 36 hr), 7-OH-MTX-AUC is still correlated with the i.v. bolus pharmacokinetic parameters. The dose prediction using the classical test-dose protocol provides a less efficient MTX dose adjustment at 5 X 10(-4) M over 8 hr (5.10(-4), 8 hr) and the hydroxylation process is no more correlated with the i.v. parameters. On the opposite, upon 6 successive infusions with 10(-5), 36 hr or 5.10(-4), 8 hr protocols, the plasma concentrations of 7-OH-MTX are not significantly modified. This suggests that the hydroxylation process is not inducible.
23446989	In vitro metabolism of obovatol and its effect on cytochrome P450 enzyme activities in human liver microsomes.	Obovatol, a major constituent of the leaves of Magnolia obovata Thunb, is known to inhibit nuclear factor-B activity and arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation. This study was performed to identify the metabolites of obovatol in human liver microsomes. Human liver microsomes incubated with obovatol in the presence of NADPH and/or UDPGA resulted in the formation of six metabolites, M1-M6. M1 and M2 were identified as hydroxyobovatol, on the basis of liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) analysis. M1, M2 and obovatol were further metabolized to their glucuronide conjugates, obovatol-glucuronide (M3), obovatol-diglucuronide (M4) and hydroxyobovatol-glucuronide (M5 and M6). The inhibitory potency of obovatol on eight major human P450s was also investigated in human liver microsomes. In these experiments, obovatol strongly inhibited CYP2C19-mediated S-mephenytoin hydroxylase activity with an IC(50) value of 0.8 M, which could have implications for drug-drug interactions.
24043137	Phase I study of the safety, pharmacokinetics and antitumor activity of famitinib.	To evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and antitumor activities of famitinib (famitinib L-malate), a novel oral multitargeting tyrosine kinase inhibitor that acts against vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2, platelet-derived growth factor receptor, stem cell factor receptor (c-kit), FMS-like tyrosine kinase-3 receptor and protooncogene tyrosine kinase receptor in patients with advanced solid cancer. Patients received once daily oral famitinib. Doses were increased from 4 to 8, 13, 20, 27, 24, 25 and eventually 30 mg. Each cycle was defined as 28 days. The pharmacokinetic profile and various biomarkers were evaluated during the first cycle. Antitumor efficacy was evaluated every 8 weeks. Fifty-four patients were evaluable for safety and efficacy. Dose-limiting toxicities were observed in 2 of 3 patients at 30 mg. The dose-limiting toxicities observed in the first cycle of famitinib treatment included hypertension, hand-foot skin reaction and diarrhea. Grade 3 hypertriglyceridemia/hypercholesterolemia and proteinuria were notable side effects in the subsequent treatment cycles. Other common side effects included bone marrow suppression, oral mucositis, fatigue, pain, elevated transaminase or bilirubin, peripheral sensory disturbance and hypothyroidism, most of which were mild to moderate in severity. Pharmacokinetic studies revealed no significant accumulation of famitinib or its major metabolite, M3. The half-lives of famitinib and M3 were approximately 28.7-33.8 and 41.3-47.7 h, respectively. Food demonstrated a minimal effect on the pharmacokinetics of famitinib. Eight partial responses were determined, including 6 cases of renal cell carcinoma, 1 case of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) and 1 case of alveolar soft part sarcoma. Fourteen patients demonstrated stable disease with various degrees of tumor shrinkage. Famitinib is generally well tolerated. Famitinib demonstrates a wide spectrum of antitumor activities, which warrants further study in renal cell carcinoma, GIST, hepatocellular carcinoma and soft tissue sarcoma. The recommended dose for future phase II clinical trials is 25 mg.
12395981	Bioequivalence assessment of rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide in a fixed dose combination of rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol vs. separate formulations.	Depending on the patient category, tuberculosis requires treatment with 3 to 5 drugs which means that patient's compliance to therapy may not be optimal. To increase patient's adherence to treatment schedules, these drugs can be given as single drug preparations or fixed dose combinations (FDCs) of 2 or more drugs in a single formulation. However, an important issue associated with a rifampicin-containing FDC is its quality. Hence, to avoid spurious formulations entering the market, the World Health Organization and the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease have recommended FDCs only of proven bioavailability. In this study, the relative bioavailability of rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide was assessed in a group of 14 healthy male subjects using the FDC tablet containing 4 drugs versus separate formulations at the same dose levels. The study was designed as an open, crossover trial. A total of 9 blood samples were collected over a period of 24 h. The concentration of rifampicin, its main metabolite desacetyl rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide in plasma were assessed using HPLC analysis. The pharmacokinetic parameters AUC(0-24) and Cmax were subjected to parametric and non-parametric statistical tests at 90% confidence interval. In addition, time to reach peak concentration (tmax), elimination rate constant (Kel) and terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) for each drug were also calculated. It was concluded that the FDC tablet containing 4 drugs is bioequivalent to separate rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide formulations at the same dose levels.
11960914	CYP2A6/2A7 and CYP2E1 expression in human oesophageal mucosa: regional and inter-individual variation in expression and relevance to nitrosamine metabolism.	Oesophageal cancer is one of the most common and lethal malignancies in the world. Despite many efforts, treatment is still ineffective for most cases; thus, the development of preventive strategies is crucial for decreasing the burden presented by this disease. Environmental factors, particularly nitrosamines, are thought to be involved in the genesis of oesophageal tumours, and knowledge about the expression of enzymes capable of activating pre-carcinogens in human oesophagus is very important for the development of preventive measures. We analysed the expression of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6/2A7, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 mRNA in oesophageal mucosa of 50 patients by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. In five patients, who suffered from squamous cell carcinoma, we measured Nnitrosodimethylamine and N-nitrosodiethylamine metabolism in normal and tumorous tissue. CYP2A6/2A7 mRNA was expressed in 61% and CYP2E1 mRNA in 96% of the patients, but in the latter a lower degree of inter-individual variation was observed. These enzymes were expressed either in the distal or middle portions of the oesophagus of 90% of the patients. CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 mRNA expression was not detected in any portion of the oesophagus. Oesophageal microsomes activated N-nitrosodimethylamine with a low degree of inter-individual variation and microsomes prepared from the tumour of a patient who strongly expressed CYP2A6/2A7 mRNA activated N-nitrosodiethylamine. We conclude that the human oesophagus expresses CYP2A6/2A7 and CYP2E1 and can activate nitrosamines. Notably, the expression of these enzymes is preferentially localized to the most common sites where tumours arise.
15640373	Characterization and partial purification of the rat and human enzyme systems active in the reduction of N-hydroxymelagatran and benzamidoxime.	The enzymic basis for intracellular reduction of N-hydroxylated amidines to their corresponding amidines, and hydroxylamines to their corresponding amines, is unknown. The hydroxylated amidines can be used as prodrug moieties, and an understanding of the enzyme system active in the reduction can contribute to more efficient drug development. In this study, we examined the properties of this enzyme system using benzamidoxime and N-hydroxymelagatran as substrates. In rats and humans, the hepatic enzyme system was localized in mitochondria as well as in microsomes, using preferably NADH as cofactor. Potassium cyanide, N-methylhydroxylamine, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, and desferrioxamine were efficient inhibitors, whereas typical cytochrome P450 (P450) inhibitors were ineffective. In rats, the highest specific activity was found in liver, adipose tissue, and kidneys, whereas in humans, the specific activity in the preparations of adipose tissue examined was lower. A sex difference was observed in rat liver, where 4-fold higher activity was seen in microsomes from female rats. No gender differences were present in any other tissue investigated. Partial purification of the hepatic system was achieved using polyethylene glycol fractionation followed by Octyl Sepharose chromatography at low detergent concentrations, whereas the enzyme was denatured after complete solubilization. The unique appearance of the enzyme activity in adipose tissue, together with the cyanide sensitivity and the failure of typical P450 inhibitors to impede the reaction, indicates that the enzyme system active in reduction of benzamidoxime and N-hydroxymelagatran formation is not of cytochrome P450 origin, but likely consists of an NADH-dependent electron transfer chain with a cyanide-sensitive protein as the terminal component.
21219702	Drugs of abuse detection in meconium: a comparison between ELISA and biochip microarray.	The results of meconium specimens and fortified samples screened for drugs of abuse by both enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA, Immunalysis) and biochip microarray (Randox) methods were compared. The ELISA method was semi-automated using a TECAN Genesis. The Randox assay used the Randox Evidence Investigator system. Previously validated gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), GC-GC-MS, or liquid chromatography-MS-MS methods were used for confirmation and quantitation. Results from the two techniques compared well. Agreement of the Randox assay was greater than 90% when compared to the ELISA assay for all drug classes except cannabinoids (88%). Specificity of the biochip assay was slightly better for amphetamines and cocaine.
8888283	Metabolism of quinine in children with global malnutrition.	Malnutrition and malaria are two important public health problems in Africa. Quinine is one of the major treatments of chloroquine-resistant malaria. Although some authors have shown that quinine clearance is decreased in kwashiorkor, this type of malnutrition is caused by protein deficiency that differs from global protein-energy malnutrition. In rats, hepatic metabolism of many drugs is decreased in protein deficiency and increased in global food restriction. Several studies have found that human hepatic metabolism of many drugs is decreased in kwashiorkor, but, as yet, no study has focused on human global energy-protein malnutrition. Thus, as quinine is a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, we compared the pharmacokinetics of quinine in two groups. One group included children with global malnutrition and the other was a control group of children with normal nutrition. Volume of distribution and plasma concentrations of unbound quinine did not differ between children with global malnutrition and children with normal nutritional status. Clearance was significantly faster, half-life shorter, and concentrations, 12 h after the beginning of treatment, lower in malnourished children compared with control subjects. The ratio between area under the curve of hydroxyquinine (metabolite of quinine in man) and area under the curve of quinine was significantly increased in malnourished children and correlated with mid-arm/ head circumference ratio (marker of malnutrition in children). Thus, as metabolism of quinine is increased in children with global malnutrition, we suggest that the administration interval should be reduced in these children to obtain the same plasma concentrations of quinine found in normally nourished children. A safe and effective dosing strategy is postulated.
19147413	Simultaneous liquid chromatographic analysis of ritonavir, quinine and 3-hydroxyquinine in human plasma.	In regions with high prevalence of HIV and malaria, co-infection of both diseases is common; hence, there is a high possibility of concurrent administration of antiretroviral and antimalarial drugs. This study describes a new ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for simultaneous determinations of ritonavir (RTV), quinine (QN), and its major metabolite, 3-hydroxyquinine (3-HQN), in human plasma. Following a simple extraction with diethyl-ether under alkaline conditions, chromatographic separation was achieved on a 5-mum particle size C-18 column (200 mm x 4.6mm I.D.) using a mobile phase consisting of methanol:acetonitrile:0.02 M potassium dihydrogen phosphate (15:10:75) containing 75 mmol/L perchloric acid (pH 2.8). Retention times for RTV, 3-HQN, QN and the internal standard were 2.8, 4.0, 7.0 and 12 min, respectively. The limits of detection and validated lower limits of quantitation were 10 and 12.5 ng/ml for RTV while the corresponding values were 5 and 70 ng/ml for both QN and 3-HQN, respectively. The new HPLC method is simple, rapid, selective, reproducible and cost-effective. As demonstrated in three volunteers, it will facilitate the conducting of simultaneous therapeutic monitoring of quinine and ritonavir in patients concurrently receiving both drugs.
16497679	Unexpected cause of raised benzene absorption in coke oven by-product workers.	Urinary biological monitoring for benzene (by measuring benzene metabolites) in coke oven by-product workers produced the unexpected result that 2 out of 10 employees had significantly raised urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA). However, simultaneous personal air sampling showed no excessive airborne exposure. Possible causes for this finding were investigated having excluded inhalation as the route of uptake. It was suspected that skin absorption via contaminated overalls was the possible mechanism and a standard frequency for overall change was introduced. Changing overalls after every four shifts reduced uptake levels to less than the equivalent of 1 ppm inhaled dose for all employees. Skin absorption of benzene in coke oven by-product workers from contaminated overalls can be significant and therefore overalls should be changed on a regular and frequent basis.
7993989	The influence of food on the disposition of the antiepileptic oxcarbazepine and its major metabolites in healthy volunteers.	The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of the antiepileptic oxcarbazepine (OXC) was investigated in healthy volunteers. Six healthy male volunteers were treated with single peroral doses of 600 mg of oxcarbazepine (Trileptal) after overnight fasting or a fat- and protein-rich breakfast. Mean (+/- SD) areas under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUC) of the major component in plasma, the active monohydroxy metabolite (MHD), which is responsible for the therapeutic effect in man, were 672 (25) mumol L-1 h when given to the fasted volunteers and 780 (31) mumol L-1 h (p = 0.042) when given after a substantial breakfast. Mean (+/- SD) maximum concentrations (Cmax) were 25.5 (4.8) mumol L-1 when given to the fasted volunteers and 31.4 (5.3) mumol L-1 (p = 0.025) when given after breakfast. Thus, the average AUC was increased by 16% and Cmax by 23% when oxcarbazepine was given with food. The times at which Cmax was reached (tmax) as well as the terminal half-lives were not influenced by concomitant intake of food. The tolerability was the same whether oxcarbazepine was given before or after food in healthy volunteers. The slight effect of food on the kinetics of oxcarbazepine should be of little therapeutic consequence.
12544511	Role of CYP2D6 in the stereoselective disposition of venlafaxine in humans.	CYP2D6 is involved in the O-demethylation metabolic pathway of venlafaxine in humans. In this study, we investigated whether this isozyme is stereoselective. Plasma samples from seven CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers (EMs) and five CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), collected during a period without and with coadministration of quinidine, were analysed. Subjects were administered venlafaxine hydrochloride 18.75 mg orally every 12 h for 48 h on two occasions (1 week apart); once alone and once during the concomitant administration of quinidine sulphate every 12 h. Blood and urine samples were collected under steady-state conditions over one dosing interval (12 h). The present results show that, although CYP2D6 catalyses the O-demethylation of both enantiomers of venlafaxine, it displays a marked stereoselectivity towards the (R)-enantiomer. The oral clearance of (R)-venlafaxine was found to be nine-fold higher in EMs compared to PMs [median (range) 173 (29-611) l/h versus 20 (16-24) l/h, P < 0.005], while it was two-fold higher for (S)-venlafaxine [73 (32-130) l/h versus 37 (21-44) l/h, P < 0.05]. In EMs, quinidine decreased (R)- and (S)-venlafaxine oral clearance by 12-fold ( 0.05) and four-fold ( 0.05), respectively. In contrast, quinidine did not have any effects on renal clearance of (R)-venlafaxine [4 (2-10) l/h for venlafaxine alone versus 5 (0.6-7) l/h for venlafaxine + quinidine] and of (S)-venlafaxine [4 (1-7) l/h for venlafaxine alone versus 3 (0.4-6) l/h for venlafaxine + quinidine]. The coadministration of quinidine to EMs resulted in an almost complete inhibition of the partial metabolic clearance of (R)-venlafaxine to O-demethylated metabolites [127 (10-493) l/h down to 1 (0.1-3) l/h, 0.05], while a seven-fold reduction was measured for (S)-venlafaxine [47 (14-94) l/h versus 7 (1-19) l/h, 0.05]. In PMs, coadministration of quinidine did not significantly change oral clearance and partial metabolic clearance of (R)- and (S)-venlafaxine to its various metabolites. In contrast, data obtained on the partial metabolic clearance of (R)- and (S)-venlafaxine to N-demethylated metabolites, a reaction which is mediated by CYP3A4, suggest a lack of stereoselectivity of this enzyme.
19439489	Identification of human metabolites of (-)-N-{2-[(R)-3-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-2-carbonyl)piperidino]ethyl}-4-fluorobenzamide (YM758), a novel If channel inhibitor, and investigation of the transporter-mediated renal and hepatic excretion of these metabolites.	(-)-N-{2-[(R)-3-(6,7-Dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-2-carbonyl)piperidino]ethyl}-4-fluorobenzamide (YM758) is a novel inhibitor of the "funny" If current channel (If channel) that is expressed in the sinus node of heart and is being developed as a treatment for stable angina and atrial fibrillation. Its metabolites were identified in human urine, plasma, and feces by radio-high-performance liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analyses after oral administration of [(14)C]YM758. 6,7-Dimethoxy-2-[(3R)-piperidin-3-ylcarbonyl]-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (YM-252124), (5R)-5-[(6,7-dimethoxy-3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-yl)carbonyl]piperidin-2-one (YM-385459), 2-{[(3R)-1-{2-[(4-fluorobenzoyl)amino]ethyl}piperidin-3-yl]carbonyl}-7-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisonolin-6-yl beta-D-glucopyranosiduronic acid (AS2036329), and the unchanged drug were detected as major constituents in both urine and plasma, whereas N-(4-fluorobenzoyl)glycine (YM-385461) was detected in plasma, but not in urine. The renal and hepatic uptake transporters for these metabolites were investigated by assessing their inhibitory effect on uptake activity in human (h) organic cation transporter (OCT) 1-3/rat (r) Oct1-3, human organic anion transporter (OAT) 1/rOat1, hOAT3/rOat3, and organic anion-transporting protein 1B1/1B3-expressing HEK293 cells. IC(50) values of YM-252124 for 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium uptake via hOCT2 and rOct2 were 93.9 and 1700 microM, respectively, suggesting that this metabolite is secreted into urine via hOCT2/rOct2 and that the large difference in the inhibitory potentials between hOCT2 and rOct2 explains the species difference in the urinary excretion ratio of the radioactivity. The renal secretion of YM-385461, one derivative of p-aminohippuric acid, via hOAT1/rOat1, and hepatic uptake of YM-252124 via hOCT1/rOct1 was also expected. This kind of study was useful in investigating the relationship between the urinary/hepatic elimination and the transport activity for metabolites.
12657923	Toxicokinetics of nortriptyline and amitriptyline: two case reports.	Two cases are presented of intentional intoxications with the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) nortriptyline (NT) and amitriptyline (AT). The peak plasma concentrations were 2290 microg/L and 2900 microg/L, respectively. The active metabolites E-10-hydroxynortriptyline (EHNT) and Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline (ZHNT) profiles were quite different as monitored for 5 to 10 days after presumed drug intake. In conclusion, these cases illustrate that (1) metabolite formation and elimination after intake of an overdose dose of NT and AT are stereoselective, and (2) NT and EHNT toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics are quite different. It also shows that a patient with a severe TCA overdose can still survive if he or she receives appropriate and quick supportive care, even if the prognostic markers QRS time, coma grade, and serum TCA levels predict poor outcome.
17565714	In vitro interaction cocktail assay for nine major cytochrome P450 enzymes with 13 probe reactions and a single LC/MSMS run: analytical validation and testing with monoclonal anti-CYP antibodies.	A sensitive and rugged LC/MSMS method was developed for a comprehensive in vitro metabolic interaction screening assay with N-in-1 approach reported earlier. A cocktail consisting of ten cytochrome P450 (CYP)-selective probe substrates with known kinetic, metabolic and interaction properties in vivo was incubated in a pool of human liver microsomes, and metabolites of melatonin (CYP1A2), coumarin (CYP2A6), bupropion (CYP2B6), amodiaquine (CYP2C8) tolbutamide (CYP2C9), omeprazole (CYP2C19 and CYP3A4), dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), chlorzoxazone (CYP2E1), midazolam (CYP3A4) and testosterone (CYP3A4) were simultaneously analysed with a single LC/MSMS run. Altogether, 13 metabolites and internal standard phenacetin were analysed in multiple reaction mode. Polarity switching mode was utilized to acquire negative ion mode electrospray data for hydroxychlorzoxazone and positive ionization data for the rest of the analytes. Fast gradient elution was applied, giving total injection cycle of 8 min. The method was modified for two different LC/MSMS systems, and was validated for linear range, detection limit, accuracy and precision for each metabolite. In addition, cocktail inhibition system was further tested using monoclonal anti-CYP antibodies as inhibitors for each probe reaction.
21370990	Evaluation of a chimeric (uPA+/+)/SCID mouse model with a humanized liver for prediction of human metabolism.	A model that predicts human metabolism and disposition of drug candidates would be of value in early drug development. In this study, a chimeric (uPA+/+)/SCID mouse model was evaluated with three structurally distinct compounds (GW695634, a benzophenone, SB-406725, a tetrahydroisoquinoline and GW823093, a fluoropyrrolidine) for which human metabolism and disposition was characterized. Human metabolite profiles in plasma and/or urine were compared to those of chimeric (uPA+/+)/SCID and control CD-1 or (uPA+/+)/SCID) mice. GW695634 and SB-406725 exhibited primarily hepatic metabolism and were chosen as probes to assess which human metabolites would likely circulate systemically. GW823093 exhibited a combination of hepatic and extrahepatic metabolism such that renal excretion of drug-related material was ~2-fold greater in humans than in mice, and thus chosen as a probe to assess if the chimeric (uPA+/+)/SCID mouse would predict the urinary excretion of human metabolites. We observed that human metabolism and disposition was well represented for GW695634, somewhat represented for GW823093 and minimally represented for SB-406725. Collectively, the results of this and other studies suggest that while limitations for prediction of human metabolism and disposition exist, humanized chimeric mouse models can potentially represent informative new tools in drug discovery and development.
15205028	Exponential modeling, washout curve reconstruction, and estimation of half-life of toluene and its metabolites.	Health risks from ostensible occupational and environmental toxicant exposure are difficult to quantify. Maximal use of limited biological measurements of xenobiotic or metabolite concentration in the body is therefore essential. Elimination rates of exhaled [2H8]toluene and urinary metabolites were analyzed from 33 exposures of males to 50 ppm [2H8]toluene for 2 h at rest. It was hypothesized that the shapes from our decay curves would be applicable to any occupational or environmental toluene exposure. Except for a rapid decline in toluene blood and breath levels in the 0-0.1 h period, this "curve reconstruction" method successfully fit data from published studies. Urinary hippuric acid concentrations were not well fit due to substantial background levels, whereas o-cresol levels were accurately described. Our approach was able to reconstruct data from studies where exposure duration ranged from 10 min to 7 h, and where activity level ranged from rest to 150 W (strenuous exercise). Using this approach, limited biological data following toluene exposure could be back-extrapolated to immediate postexposure concentrations, which in turn could be compared to biological indicators of exposure to determine risk.
18645999	Urinary excretion of strawberry anthocyanins is dose dependent for physiological oral doses of fresh fruit.	There is considerable interest in coloured fruits and berries as sources of biologically active anthocyanins. To examine the relationship between the oral dose and the amount excreted for anthocyanins from a food source across a physiological range of doses, volunteers were fed, in random order, four portions (100-400 g) of fresh strawberries as part of a standard breakfast. Urine was collected at 2 h intervals up to 8 h, and for the period 8-24 h. Fresh strawberries contained pelargonidin-3-glucoside as the major anthocyanin with smaller amounts of cyanidin-3-glucoside and pelargonidin-3-rutinoside. Anthocyanins were detected in the urine of all volunteers for all doses, predominantly as pelargonidin glucuronide and sulphate metabolites. There was a strong, linear relationship between oral dose and anthocyanin excretion (Pearson's product moment correlation coefficient = 0.692, p < 0.001, n = 40) which indicated that on an average, every additional unit of dose caused 0.0166 units of excretion. Within individuals, dose -- excretion data fitted a linear regression model (median R(2) = 0.93). We conclude that strawberry anthocyanins are partially bioavailable in humans with a linear relationship between oral dose and urinary excretion for doses up to 400 g fresh fruit.
20551241	Profiling induction of cytochrome p450 enzyme activity by statins using a new liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry cocktail assay in human hepatocytes.	Human hepatocytes in primary culture are a very useful model to directly assess induction of gene expression by xenobiotics. We developed a cytochrome P450 (P450) activity cocktail assay using model substrates for the seven important P450s 1A2 (phenacetin), 2B6 (bupropion), 2C8 (amodiaquine), 2C9 (tolbutamide), 2C19 (S-mephenytoin), 2D6 (propafenone), and 3A4 (atorvastatin). Metabolite formation was determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in hepatocyte culture supernatants. Atorvastatin has not been previously assessed as a CYP3A probe drug. We demonstrate highly selective atorvastatin ortho-hydroxylation by CYP3A4 by recombinant P450s. In human liver microsomes ortho-hydroxyatorvastatin formation was highly correlated with CYP3A4 protein content (r(s) = 0.78, p < 0.0001, n = 150). We profiled induction of these P450 activities in primary human hepatocytes after treatment with 30 microM atorvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin for 24 to 72 h. Except for pravastatin, all statins induced P450 activities to various degrees, approximately in the order atorvastatin > simvastatin > lovastatin > rosuvastatin. Inducibility of P450s followed the order CYP2C8 > CYP3A4 > CYP2C9 > CYP2B6 > CYP2C19 approximately CYP2D6 > CYP1A2. The strongest induction was observed for amodiaquine N-desalkylation, which was induced approximately 20-fold. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction confirmed corresponding changes on the mRNA level with even more dramatic induction up to almost 100-fold. These data suggest a broader inducing effect of statins on cytochrome P450s and possibly other absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion genes than previously known, thus further emphasizing their drug-drug interaction potential. Our cocktail assay should be helpful for economical use of human hepatocytes in the assessment of P450 induction by drugs and drug candidates.
16763015	Potential impact of steatosis on cytochrome P450 enzymes of human hepatocytes isolated from fatty liver grafts.	Liver grafts discarded for transplantation because of macrosteatosis can constitute a valuable source of human hepatocytes for in vitro metabolic and pharmacotoxicological studies or for therapeutic applications. A condition for using hepatocyte suspensions for these purposes is the preservation of their metabolic competence and, particularly, drug-metabolizing enzymes. A reduction in microsomal cytochrome P450 (P450) activities was observed in fatty livers (>40% steatosis) with respect to normal tissue. Similarly, decreased levels of 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation and testosterone metabolism were observed in human hepatocyte cultures prepared from steatotic liver tissue. To clarify the potential impact of lipid accumulation on human hepatic P450 enzymes, we have used an in vitro model of "cellular steatosis" by incubation of cultured hepatocytes with increasing concentrations (0.25-3 mM) of long-chain free fatty acids (FFA). A dose-dependent accumulation of lipids in the cytosol is induced by FFA mixture. Hepatocytes exposed to 1 mM FFA for 14 h showed lower activity values of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 enzymes than nontreated hepatocytes (about 45-65% reduction). This treatment also produced significant decreases in CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 mRNA to about 55 to 75% of mRNA levels in control cells. Our results suggest that although human hepatocytes isolated from steatotic liver show reduced P450 activities, they are metabolically competent and can be used for drug metabolism studies.
7107766	Determination of plasma levels of spirorenone, a new aldosterone antagonist, and one of its metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A method for the determination of plasma concentrations of spirorenone, a new aldosterone antagonist, and one of its metabolites, chromatographically characterized as 1,2-dihydro-spirorenone, is described. The assay utilizes high-performance liquid chromatography with UV detection. Reproducible results can be obtained with standard deviations of about 5% and the limit of detection is less than 5 ng/ml. Plasma levels of drug and metabolite have been measured after oral doses of 10 and 40 mg, respectively, administered to two male volunteers.
11465392	Human adult and foetal liver sulphotransferases: inhibition by mefenamic acid and salicylic acid.	1. The aim was to see whether mefenamic acid and salicylic acid had different inhibition profiles for SULT1A1 (substrate: 4-nitrophenol) and SULT1A3 (dopamine) activities and on (-)-salbutamol and minoxidil sulphation rates in the human adult and mid-gestational foetal livers. 2. The activity (pmolmin(-1) mg(-1) of SULT1A1 was 662 +/- 78 (adult) and 246 +/- 159 (foetus; p = 0.003) and that of SULT1A3 was 24 +/- 4 (adult) and 121 +/- 90 (foetus; p = 0.030). The rate (pmol min(-1) mg(-1)) of (-)-salbutamol sulphation was 109 +/- 27 (adult) and 117 +/- 34 (foetus; p = (0.144) and that of minoxidil sulphation was 202 +/- 38 (adult) and 108 +/- 44 (foetus; p = 0.001). 3. With mefenamic acid as an inhibitor, the IC50 (microM) for SULT1A1 was 0.2 +/- 0.004 (adult) and 0.01 +/- 0.002 (foetus; p = 0.001); for SULT1A3 it was 76 +/- 6 (adult) and 77 +/- 13 (foetus; p = 0.889); for the rate of ( )-salbutamol sulphation it was 0.07 +/- 0.005 (adult) and not determinable (foetus) and for minoxidil sulphation it was 1.6 +/- 0.7 (adult) and 0.15 +/- 0.04 (foetus; p = 0.076). 4. With salicylic acid as an inhibitor, the IC50 (microM) for SULT1A1 was 30 +/- 2 (adult) and 25 +/- 1 (foetus; p = 0.011); for SULT1A3 it was 690 +/- 36 (adult) and 570 +/- 16 (foetus; p = 0.229); for the rate of ( )-salbutamol sulphation it was 93 +/- 11 (adult) and 344 +/- 42 (foetus; p = 0.010); with minoxidil as substrate, the IC50 was not determinable. 5. In summary, SULT1A1, SULT1A3 and the sulphotransferases towards (-)-salbutamol and minoxidil had measurable activities in the mid-gestational human foetal liver. Mefenamic acid was a more potent inhibitor than salicylic acid of both human adult and foetal liver SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 activities. Foetal liver SULT1A1 was more susceptible than adult liver SULT1A1 to inhibition by mefenamic acid and salicylic acid. These results are consistent with the view that sulphotransferases develop early in the human foetal liver and drugs may inhibit their activities.
12833388	Quantitation of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites in human plasma by micellar electrokinetic chromatography.	A reliable micellar electrokinetic chromatographic method for the determination of oxcarbazepine and its two main metabolites, 10-hydroxycarbamazepine and 10,11-trans-dihydroxy-10,11-dihydroxycarbamazepine, in human plasma was developed. The separation and determination of the analytes was achieved using a system consisting of 60 mM SDS in phosphate buffer (30 mM, pH 8.0), to which 20% (v/v) methanol was added. Separation was carried out in an uncoated fused-silica capillary with a separation voltage of 25 kV and currents typically less than 40 microA. Spectrophotometric detection was at 205 nm. Isolation of oxcarbazepine and its metabolites from plasma was accomplished by a solid-phase extraction procedure. The mean extraction yield of the analytes from plasma was higher than 94%. The linear correlation coefficients were better than 0.994 for all analytes. The limit of detection was 0.05 microg/mL, the limit of quantitation 0.15 microg/mL. The repeatability for the spiked blank plasma samples was lower than 1.9% and the intermediate precision lower than 2.1%, both expressed as RSD%. The results obtained analysing real plasma samples from epileptic patients under therapy with Tolep were satisfactory in terms of precision, accuracy and detectability.
23246700	Phthalate and di-(2-ethylhexyl) adipate (DEHA) intake by German infants based on the results of a duplicate diet study and biomonitoring data (INES 2).	Phthalates as well as di-(2-ethylhexyl) adipate (DEHA) are used as plasticizers in diverse applications and are of toxicological concern. The study was conducted with a study population of 25 German subjects aged between 15 and 21 months. Overall, 16 phthalates and DEHA were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in a total of 171 duplicate diet samples collected over 7 consecutive days, and 20 phthalate metabolites were analyzed in the urine samples collected over 7 consecutive days using a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. The median "high" daily dietary intake based on 95th percentiles was 4.66 g/kg b.w. for di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), 1.03 g/kg b.w. for di-isobutyl phthalate (DiBP), and 0.70 g/kg b.w. for di-n-butyl phthalate (DnBP), and 1.0 g/kg b.w. for DEHA. The "high" daily total intake from biomonitoring data was 4.9 g/kg b.w. for DEHP, 2.2 g/kg b.w. for DnBP, 3.9 g/kg b.w. for DiBP, and 2.6 g/kg b.w. for di-isononyl phthalate. The comparison of the two intake estimates indicates that the dominant intake source of DEHP was food ingestion, whereas other sources considerably contributed to the total intake of other phthalates. Using our "high" intake scenario, none of the analyzed phthalates reached the recommended tolerable daily intake levels.
20014405	DNA-adducts in subjects exposed to urban air pollution by benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in Cotonou, Benin.	Air pollution effect on humans represents a major public health problem. Exposure to genotoxic compounds in the ambient air is evaluated using different biomarkers. In the present study we assessed DNA-adducts levels in apparently healthy people living and working in the city of Cotonou (Benin) in which exposure to air pollutants such as benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) mainly benzo(a)pyrene has been evidenced. Rural inhabitants were enrolled as control group. Taxi-motorbike drivers, street food vendors, and gasoline salesmen were recruited in Cotonou whereas suburban residents were recruited in Godomey, 12 km from Cotonou. We found that taxi-motorbike drivers, roadside residents, street vendors, taxi-motor-bike drivers and gasoline sellers had significantly higher levels of DNA-adducts than suburban and village inhabitants (P < 0.001; post hoc, LSD). Means values were 24.6  6.4, 23.78  6.9, 34.7  9.8, and 37.2  8.1 in the exposed groups versus 2.1  0.6 and 3.1  0.8 adducts/10(8) nucleotides, in the two control groups, respectively. We did not find any significant difference within the high exposure groups and inside low exposure subgroups (namely suburban residents and villagers) because the mean individual exposure values to both PAHs and benzene were similar among subjects exposed in the city of Cotonou and those in suburban and village areas. However, there is significant interindividual variations in adducts levels that may reflect variation of genetic susceptibility factors. Ranges of adduct level/10(8) nucleotides were: 1-69, 1-76, 3-169, 4-124, 0-9, 0-8 adducts/10(8) for taxi-motorbike drivers, roadside residents, street vendors, gasoline sellers, suburban and village inhabitants, respectively. Our study demonstrated a clear-cut elevated level of DNA adducts in city residents than in none exposed people (or very low exposure levels people) and designate these city residents groups as people at risks for the chronic diseases possibly caused by benzene and PAHs.
20441150	Concentration and solubility of flavanones in orange beverages affect their bioavailability in humans.	Orange juice is a very rich source of dietary flavanones. The effect of flavanone concentration and solubility of orange beverages on their bioavailability has been studied in a crossover study with 10 healthy volunteers. Five different beverages with different flavanone concentrations were evaluated. Commercial orange juices (29.2-70.3 mg of flavanones/100 mL) were compared with experimental orange beverages in which the flavanone concentration was enhanced (110.2 mg/100 mL). Hesperetin and naringenin glucuronides and sulfates were detected and quantified in plasma and urine. The study shows that the solubility of the flavanones, and particularly that of hesperidin, in the juice is a key factor for the bioavailability as flavanone excretion and the C(max) in plasma correlate well with the soluble flavanone concentration in the juice, whereas it has no correlation with the total flavanone intake. In addition, a large interindividual variation was observed, this being consistent for each individual after the intake of the different beverages, suggesting that flavanone bioavailability is also dependent on the occurrence of specific microbiota that is able to remove the rutinosides from the juice glycosides, which results in aglycones that are then absorbed from the gut.
9253143	Cytochrome P450 isozymes responsible for the metabolism of toluene and styrene in human liver microsomes.	1. Cytochrome P450 isozymes from Asian (31 Chinese subjects) and Caucasian (14 Finnish subjects) livers were examined for their roles in the metabolism of toluene (rates of benzyl alcohol, o- and p-cresol formation) and styrene (rates of styrene glycol formation). 2. For toluene, the overall rate of metabolism was higher in samples from Finnish than from Chinese subjects. At 0-20 mM toluene, the rate of o-cresol formation was significantly higher in Finnish microsomes than in Chinese ones. The formation rates of benzyl alcohol and p-cresol in Finnish samples were also higher than those of Chinese samples, but only at a high substrate concentration (5.0 mM). For styrene metabolism, the Chinese liver microsomes showed higher metabolic rates than the Finnish ones at 0.085 mM styrene, but not at the higher substrate concentration. 3. Mean expression levels of immunochemically detected CYP1A2/1 and CYP2B6 were almost 3-fold higher in Finnish microsomes, whereas CYP2E1 was 1.7-fold higher in Chinese samples. 4. Correlation analysis showed that CYP2E1 (benzyl alcohol formation) and CYP1A2/1 (o-cresol formation) contributed to the metabolism of toluene at the low substrate concentration, whereas CYP2C8 was the form more actively involved at the higher toluene concentrations. At the higher concentration (1.8 mM) of styrene, CYP2B6 was most active isozyme to catalyse the formation of styrene oxide from styrene. 5. These results suggest that CYP2E1 and CYP1A2/1 are the main isoforms responsible for the metabolism of toluene at low substrate concentrations in human liver microsomes, CYP2E1 at low styrene concentration, and CYP2C8 and CYP2B6 at high concentrations of toluene and styrene respectively.
21937987	Determining the time course of CYP3A inhibition by potent reversible and irreversible CYP3A inhibitors using A limited sampling strategy.	We established a new limited sampling strategy to assess CYP3A activity and evaluated the time course of reversible (voriconazole) and irreversible (ritonavir) CYP3A inhibition. In this randomized trial, two groups, each with eight healthy participants, received CYP3A inhibitors voriconazole or ritonavir orally for 9 days, with 3 mg midazolam (MDZ) administered before the inhibitor treatment, on days 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, and 9 during inhibitor treatment, and on days 10, 11, and 12 (3 days) after discontinuation. Plasma MDZ area under the curve (AUC) between 2 and 4 h after oral administration in the form of a solution strongly correlated with MDZ clearance. Using this parameter, maximum inhibition of voriconazole and ritonavir was calculated to have occurred only 48 h after starting of the inhibitor (percentage of baseline MDZ clearance, voriconazole: 10.6%; ritonavir: 8.4%). Recovery of CYP3A activity occurred with a half-life of 24 h after voriconazole, whereas ritonavir inhibition was still strong 3 days after discontinuation. These findings underscore the substantial and gradual alterations in dose requirements in the first days of and after such combination therapies.
8620574	Oxazolidonylethyl adducts to hemoglobin and DNA following nornitrogen mustard exposure.	Formation of adducts to hemoglobin (Hb) and DNA of nornitrogen mustard (NNM) was studied with the aim of developing a method for monitoring exposure to NNM. Adducts to N-terminal valines in Hb were studied by the N-alkyl Edman method using pentafluorophenyl isothiocyanate (PFPITC) as the derivatizing reagent. In preliminary studies five major Hb adducts were shown to be formed in reaction of NNM with red cell hemolysate in vitro. Following treatment with PFPITC three of these were found to be pentafluorophenylthiohydantoins (PFPTHs) of N-alkylated valines and the fourth probably originates from NNM esters in which PFPITC had reacted with the nitrogen of N-chloroethylaminoethyl. A PFPTH was found to originate from N-2-(3-oxazolidonyl)ethylvaline, Val-OZ. Val-OZ is formed in reaction, with ring closure to oxazolidone, of CO2 with the 2-chloroethylamino group in the primary valine-N adduct. Besides a few other adducts, Val-OZ was also observed in mouse Hb following injection of NNM, and also after injection of cyclophosphamide. Following reaction in vitro of NNM with DNA, three major adducts to guanine-N-7 were observed; one of them, 7-(N'-(2-chloroethyl)-2-aminoethyl]-guanine (NNMCl), was converted by carbonate to 7-(2-3-oxazolidonyl)ethyl]guanine (Gua-OZ). In mice treated with NNM, Gua-Oz was the only DNA adduct observed. Val-Oz is a chemically stable Hb adduct, potentially useful for monitoring exposures to NNM and cyclophosphamide.
21622626	Sequential metabolism of sesamin by cytochrome P450 and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase in human liver.	Our previous study revealed that CYP2C9 played a central role in sesamin monocatecholization. In this study, we focused on the metabolism of sesamin monocatechol that was further converted into the dicatechol form by cytochrome P450 (P450) or the glucuronide by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). Catecholization of sesamin monocatechol enhances its antioxidant activity, whereas glucuronidation strongly reduces its antioxidant activity. In human liver microsomes, the glucuronidation activity was much higher than the catecholization activity toward sesamin monocatechol. In contrast, in rat liver microsomes, catecholization is predominant over glucuronidation. In addition, rat liver produced two isomers of the glucuronide, whereas human liver produced only one glucuronide. These results suggest a significant species-based difference in the metabolism of sesamin between humans and rats. Kinetic studies using recombinant human UGT isoforms identified UGT2B7 as the most important UGT isoform for glucuronidation of sesamin monocatechol. In addition, a good correlation was observed between the glucuronidation activity and UGT2B7-specific activity in in vitro studies using 10 individual human liver microsomes. These results strongly suggest that UGT2B7 plays an important role in glucuronidation of sesamin monocatechol. Interindividual difference among the 10 human liver microsomes is approximately 2-fold. These results, together with our previous results on the metabolism of sesamin by human P450, suggest a small interindividual difference in sesamin metabolism. We observed the methylation activity toward sesamin monocatechol by catechol O-methyl transferase (COMT) in human liver cytosol. On the basis of these results, we concluded that CYP2C9, UGT2B7, and COMT played essential roles in the metabolism of sesamin in the human liver.
11840287	Effect of methotrexate polyglutamates on thioguanine nucleotide concentrations during continuation therapy of acute lymphoblastic leukemia with mercaptopurine.	Methotrexate is widely administered with mercaptopurine, a prodrug requiring activation into thioguanine nucleotides (TGN) to exert antileukemic effects. In vitro, methotrexate enhances TGN formation, but in vivo, such enhancement has yet to be demonstrated. We investigated whether TGN concentrations were related to methotrexate concentrations in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who received a weekly intravenous methotrexate (40 mg/m(2)) dose combined with daily mercaptopurine (75 mg/m(2)). A total of 141 erythrocyte TGN concentrations were measured with erythrocyte methotrexate polyglutamates (MTX-PG) concentrations in 87 patients. Average TGN concentrations ranged from 137 to 958 pmol/8 x 10(8) cells (median 389), average total MTX-PG concentrations (MTX- PG(1-7)) from 0.60 to 97.7 pmol/10(9)cells (median 29), and average long chain polyglutamate concentrations (MTX-PG(5-7)) from 0 to 8.35 pmol/10(9) cells (median 2.43). Higher TGN concentrations correlated with higher MTX-PG(5-7) concentrations (P = 0.002). These data support the practice of administering methotrexate with mercaptopurine during continuation therapy of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
17227625	Efflux of baicalin, a flavone glucuronide of Scutellariae Radix, on Caco-2 cells through multidrug resistance-associated protein 2.	Baicalin and its aglycone, baicalein, being are strong antioxidants and have various pharmacological actions. Baicalein has shown a unique metabolic fate in rat intestine, being excreted into the intestinal lumen from mucosal (epithelial) cells following glucuronidation of baicalein absorbed after oral administration. The purpose of this study was to examine the absorption and excretion of baicalin and baicalein in a Caco-2 cell monolayer model to evaluate the disposition of baicalin and baicalein in the human intestine. When baicalein at 5 microM was loaded on the apical side of the Caco-2 cell monolayer, baicalein was not transferred to the basolateral side, but more baicalin was excreted onto the apical side than was being absorbed onto the basolateral side. The amount of baicalin recovered on both sides accounted for more than 90% of the baicalein absorbed from the apical surface. This was supported by the fact that Caco-2 cell microsomes showed UDP-glucuronate glucuronosyltransferase activity towards baicalein to form baicalin. On the other hand, when baicalein was loaded at higher concentrations, baicalin excretion became saturated, and then baicalein was transferred to the basolateral side. Furthermore, baicalin efflux was not inhibited by MDR1/P-glycoprotein substrates such as ciclosporin and vinblastine, but significantly inhibited by multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2, ABCC2) substrates such as probenecid and genistein. MRP2 was also detected in Caco-2 cells by Western blotting using specific antibodies. In addition, baicalin, but not baicalein, enhanced dose-dependently the vanadate-sensitive ATPase activity of human MRP2. These results indicated that, in Caco-2 cells, any baicalein absorbed after loading at low concentrations of baicalein was not transferred to the basolateral side, but was first transformed into baicalin in the cells and excreted through the action of MRP2, mainly to the apical side.
17725885	Development and GC-MS validation of a highly sensitive recombinant G6PDH-based homogeneous immunoassay for the detection of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine in urine.	Buprenorphine is now increasingly prescribed as an alternative to methadone for the treatment of heroin addiction. Because of its potency (dosage usages from 0.2 mg to 8 mg), the drug concentrations in body fluids are normally very low. Here, we report the first recombinant glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH)-based homogeneous immunoassay (EMIT-type assay) for free buprenorphine and free norbuprenorphine in urine. The antibody used in this assay cross-reacts nearly identically with buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine and, at the same time, has less than 1% cross-reactivity with a wide range of commonly prescribed opiates, particularly those structurally related compounds such as morphine, codeine, and dihydrocodeine. More importantly, this assay has a low detection limit of 1 ng/mL for buprenorphine or norbuprenorphine. Further evaluation of this technique using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) of authentic urine samples demonstrated that the accuracy of the assay is greater than 95%. Because this assay is designed to measure the free drugs in urine, it resulted in simplification for GC-MS or liquid chromatography-MS confirmation methods that did not require urine hydrolysis before solid-phase or liquid-liquid extraction.
2058177	Comparative enantioselectivity in the sulphoxidation of albendazole in man, dogs and rats.	1. H.p.l.c. analyses were performed to investigate the plasma kinetics of albendazole (ABZ), the sulphoxide (SO.ABZ) and sulphone (SO2ABZ) metabolites, as well as the chirality vs time of SO.ABZ, after oral administration to rats, dogs and man of prochiral sulphide antiparasitic drug ABZ. 2. In all three species the initial plasma concentration ratio of the enantiomers, as soon as SO.ABZ could be detected in plasma, was that of a racemate. 3. Subsequently, the ratio (+)/(-) increased linearly with time, reaching values of 13.1 and 9.3 in man and dogs, respectively, while it decreased to 0.6 in rats. 4. The (+) enantiomer represents 80%, 70% and 41% of the area under the curve of the total SO.ABZ in man, dogs and rats, respectively.
17164689	Pharmacokinetic variability of aripiprazole and the active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole in psychiatric patients.	Aripiprazole is a new atypical antipsychotic drug with a partial agonist activity at dopamine 2 and serotonin 1A receptors. The metabolism of aripiprazole involves both cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) and CYP3A4. This study investigated the pharmacokinetic variability of aripiprazole and the active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole on the basis of 155 drug monitoring samples from psychiatric patients treated with therapeutic doses of aripiprazole (10-30 mg/day). Serum concentrations of drug and metabolite were determined by liquid chromatographic and tandem mass spectrometric detection. Pharmacokinetic variability was expressed as the range in concentration/dose (C/D) ratios, and the effect of sex and occasionally coprescribed CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers was studied. In addition, the dose-concentration relationship and combined interquartile range of concentrations obtained at low dose (10-15 mg/day) and high dose (20-30 mg/day) were described. Individual C/D ratios ranged 37-fold for aripiprazole, 78-fold for dehydroaripiprazole, and 27-fold for the active sum of aripiprazole + dehydroaripiprazole. Median C/D ratios in male and female patients differed by less than 15%, and none of the differences were significant (P > 0.14). Cases of concurrent CYP3A4 inducers/inhibitors were not found, but three patients were coprescribed the potent CYP2D6 inhibitors paroxetine or fluoxetine. No consistent difference in C/D ratio was observed in these three patients compared with the rest of the patients. There was a proportional dose-concentration relationship in the population, and the combined interquartile ranges were 230 to 960 nmol/L for aripiprazole and 330 to 1210 nmol/L for aripiprazole + dehydroaripiprazole. In conclusion, pharmacokinetic variability of aripiprazole is extensive in psychiatric patients but apparently not dependent on dose or sex. The variability of the pharmacologic active sum of aripiprazole + dehydroaripiprazole is 25% to 30% less than aripiprazole, suggesting that variability of aripiprazole is partly determined by metabolism to dehydroaripiprazole.
15122651	Benzene metabolism in human lung cell lines BEAS-2B and A549 and cells overexpressing CYP2F1.	Benzene is an occupational and environmental toxicant. The main human health concern associated with benzene exposure is leukemia. The toxic effects of benzene are dependent on its metabolism by the cytochrome p450 enzyme system. The cytochrome p450 enzymes CYP2E1 and CYP2F2 are the major contributors to the bioactivation of benzene in rats and mice. Although benzene metabolism has been shown to occur with mouse and human lung microsomal preparations, little is known about the ability of human CYP2F to metabolize benzene or the lung cell types that might activate this toxicant. Our studies compared bronchiolar derived (BEAS-2B) and alveolar derived (A549) human cell lines for benzene metabolizing ability by evaluating the roles of CYP2E1 and CYP2F1. BEAS-2B cells that overexpressed CYP2F1 and recombinant CYP2F1 were also evaluated. BEAS-2B cells overexpressing the enzyme CYP2F1 produced 47.4 +/- 14.7 pmols hydroxylated metabolite/10(6) cells/45 min. The use of the CYP2E1-selective inhibitor diethyldithiocarbamate and the CYP2F2-selective inhibitor 5-phenyl-1-pentyne demonstrated that both CYP2E1 and CYP2F1 are important in benzene metabolism in the BEAS-2B and A549 human lung cell lines. The recombinant expressed human CYP2F1 enzyme had a K(m) value of 3.83 microM and a V(max) value of 0.01 pmol/pmol p450 enzyme/min demonstrating a reasonably efficient catalysis of benzene metabolism (V(max)/K(m) = 2.6). Thus, these studies have demonstrated in human lung cell lines that benzene is bioactivated by two lung-expressed p450 enzymes.
23798321	Steady-state plasma concentration of donepezil enantiomers and its stereoselective metabolism and transport in vitro.	The aim of the present study was to elucidate the differences in the plasma concentration of two enantiomers of donepezil in Chinese patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and investigate in vitro stereoselective metabolism and transport. Donepezil enantiomers were separated and determined by LC-MS/MS using D5-donepezil as an internal standard on a Sepax Chiralomix SB-5 column. In vitro stereoselective metabolism and transport of donepezil were investigated in human liver microsomes and MDCKII-MDR1 cell monolayer. Pre-dose (Css-min) plasma concentrations were determined in 52 patients. The mean plasma level of (R)-donepezil was 14.94 ng/ml and that of (S)-donepezil was 23.37 ng/ml. One patient's plasma concentration of (R)-donepezil was higher than (S)-donepezil and the ratio is 1.51. The mean plasma levels of (S)-donepezil were found to be higher than those of (R)-donepezil in 51 patients and the ratio of plasma (R)- to (S)-donepezil varies from 0.34 to 0.85. In the in vitro microsomal system, (R)-donepezil degraded faster than (S)-donepezil. V(max) of (R)-donepezil was significantly higher than (S)-donepezil. The P-gp inhibition experiment shown that the P(app) of the two enantiomers was higher than 200 and the efflux ratios were 1.11 and 0.99. The results of the P-gp inhibition identification experiment showed IC50 values of 35.5 and 20.4 M, respectively, for the two enantiomers. The results indicate that donepezil exhibits stereoselective hepatic metabolism that may explain the differences in the steady-state plasma concentrations observed. Neither (R)- nor (S)-donepezil was a P-gp substance and the two enantiomers are highly permeable through the blood-brain barrier.
11950775	Identification of the cytochromes P450 that catalyze coumarin 3,4-epoxidation and 3-hydroxylation.	Coumarin, a widely used fragrance ingredient, is a rat liver and mouse lung toxicant. Species differences in toxicity are metabolism-dependent, with injury resulting from the cytochrome P450-mediated formation of coumarin 3,4-epoxide (CE). In this study, the enzymes responsible for coumarin activation in liver and lung were determined. Recombinant human and rat CYP1A forms and recombinant human CYP2E1 readily catalyzed CE production. Coinhibition with CYP1A1/2 and CYP2E1 antibodies blocked CE formation by 38, 84, and 67 to 92% (n = 3 individual samples) in mouse, rat, and human hepatic microsomes, respectively. Although CYP1A and 2E forms seem to be the most active catalysts of CE formation in liver, studies conducted with the mechanism-based inhibitor 5-phenyl-pentyne demonstrated that CYP2F2 is responsible for up to 67% of CE formation in whole mouse lung microsomes. In contrast to the CE pathway, coumarin 3-hydroxylation is a minor product of coumarin in liver microsomes from mice, rats, and humans and is catalyzed predominately by CYP3A and CYP1A forms, confirming that CE and 3-hydroxycoumarin are formed via distinct metabolic pathways.
17855087	Identification and synthesis of major metabolites of Vasopressin V2-receptor agonist WAY-151932, and antagonist, Lixivaptan.	Small molecule agonists and antagonists of the V(2)-vasopressin receptor have been discovered and have undergone clinical trials. In conjunction with these discovery programs, the synthesis and biological testing of various metabolites associated with these clinical targets were actively pursued. We now report the results of our synthetic efforts and the corresponding biological data generated for several of the metabolites of WAY-151932 and CL-347985 (Lixivaptan).
15537834	Lansoprazole enantiomer activates human liver microsomal CYP2C9 catalytic activity in a stereospecific and substrate-specific manner.	We recently proposed a possible stereoselective activation by lansoprazole of CYP2C9-catalyzed tolbutamide hydroxylation, as well as stereoselective inhibition of several cytochrome P450 (P450) isoforms. This study evaluated the effects of lansoprazole enantiomers on CYP2C9 activity in vitro, using several probe substrates. For tolbutamide 4-methylhydroxylation and phenytoin 4-hydroxylation, R-lansoprazole was an activator (140 and 550% of control at 100 microM R-lansoprazole, EC50 values of 19.9 and 30.2 microM, respectively). R-Lansoprazole-mediated activation of the formation of 4-hydroxyphenytoin was also seen with recombinant human CYP2C9. R-Lansoprazole increased the Michaelis-Menten-derived V(max) of phenytoin 4-hydroxylation from 0.024 to 0.121 pmol/min/pmol P450, and lowered its K(m) from 20.5 to 15.0 microM, suggesting that R-lansoprazole activates CYP2C9-mediated phenytoin metabolism without displacing phenytoin from the active site. Kinetic parameters were also estimated using the two-site binding equation, with alpha values <1 and beta values >1, indicative of activation. Additionally, phenytoin at 10 to 200 microM had no reciprocal effect on the hydroxylation of R-lansoprazole. Meanwhile, R-lansoprazole had no activation effect on diclofenac and S-warfarin metabolism in the incubation study using both recombinant CYP2C9 and human liver microsomes. These substrate-dependent activation effects suggest that phenytoin has a different binding orientation compared with diclofenac and S-warfarin. Overall, these results suggest that R-lansoprazole activates CYP2C9 in a stereospecific and substrate-specific manner, possibly by binding within the active site and inducing positive cooperativity. This is the first report to describe stereoselective activation of this cytochrome P450 isoform.
18356270	Metabolism of boswellic acids in vitro and in vivo.	Boswellia serrata resin dry extract is among the few herbal remedies designated with an orphan drug status for the treatment of peritumoral brain edema. In addition, boswellic acids (BAs), the main active ingredients of B. serrata extracts, have potent anti-inflammatory properties, and may represent promising agents for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. Pharmacokinetic studies, however, revealed poor bioavailability, especially of 11-keto-beta-boswellic acid (KBA) and 3-acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid (AKBA), the most potent BAs. To address the question of whether BAs are extensively metabolized, we determined the metabolic stability of KBA and AKBA in vitro, investigated the in vitro metabolism of BAs, and compared the metabolic profiles of KBA and AKBA with those obtained in rats in vivo. In rat liver microsomes and hepatocytes as well as in human liver microsomes, we found that KBA but not AKBA undergoes extensive phase I metabolism. Oxidation to hydroxylated metabolites is the principal metabolic route. In vitro, KBA yielded metabolic profiles similar to those obtained in vivo in rat plasma and liver, whereas no metabolites of AKBA could be identified in vivo. Furthermore, AKBA is not deacetylated to KBA. This study indicates that the efficacy of B. serrata extract may be enhanced by increasing the bioavailability of AKBA.
21915887	Direct and metabolism-dependent cytochrome P450 inhibition assays for evaluating drug-drug interactions.	We developed methods for evaluating the ntial inhibition of human cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4, using pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs). The CYP inhibition assay used substrate cocktail sets [set A: phenacetin for CYP1A2, coumarin for CYP2A6, (S)-(+)-mephenytoin for CYP2C19, dextromethorphan for CYP2D6 and midazolam for CYP3A4; set B: bupropion for CYP2B6, tolbutamide for CYP2C9, chlorzoxazone for CYP2E1, and testosterone for CYP3A4] with quantitation by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. A direct inhibition assay was performed with the substrate cocktails without -nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) pre-incubation, and a metabolism-dependent inhibition (MDI) assay was performed after 30 min of pre-incubation with NADPH in HLMs. MDI was identified based on the half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) shifts. The IC(50) values of the direct inhibitors determined using the probe substrate cocktails were in good agreement with previously reported values. Eight metabolism-dependent inhibitors including furafylline, 8-methoxypsoralen, tienilic acid, ticlopidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, disulfiram and verapamil against CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4, respectively, resulted in significant IC(50) shifts (2.5-fold) after pre-incubation. Thus, these CYP inhibition assays are considered to be useful tools for evaluating both direct inhibition and MDI at an early stage of the drug discovery and development process.
21396228	Target urinary analytes for the gas chromatographic- mass spectrometric detection of procyclidine and benzhexol in drug abuse cases.	The two antiparkinsonian drugs procyclidine and benzhexol are presently finding considerable favor for their euphoric hallucinogenic effects among drug abusers in some countries. In anticipation of their possible scheduling in national drug laws, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) methods for their detection in urine will be required. However, because of uncertainty of the metabolic fate of the two drugs in humans, the urinary target analytes for GC-MS detection were not well defined. The problem was addressed in the present study in which it was found that mono-hydroxy metabolites, where hydroxylation took place at the cyclohexane ring in both drugs, could be endorsed as the major target analytes. The metabolites could only be detected as the mono- and/or di-trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives. The predominance of either derivative depended on the temperature and time of heating with the derivatizing reagent. Because of the basic properties of the hydroxy metabolites, analytic method optimization was needed for their detection in urine included extraction under basic pH conditions. Urine hydrolysis with -glucuronidase did not have an effect on the recovery of the metabolites, but was usually performed in search for other drugs. Because of the relative abundance of ions, the electron impact mass spectra of the mono-TMS derivatives and the chemical ionization (CI) mass spectra of the mono- and di-TMS derivatives of the hydroxy metabolites of both drugs were found to be more structurally informative. The CI mass spectra of the di- TMS derivatives have the additive advantage of being potentially useful for quantitative analysis.
17884319	Disappearance of ethyl glucuronide during heavy putrefaction.	There are previous publications showing the use of ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a non-oxidative metabolite of ethanol, as a marker of ante-mortem ingestion of alcohol in forensic autopsy cases. The problem of possible degradation or formation of EtG during putrefaction is however not well studied and the aim of this study was to investigate the possibility of false negative and false positive EtG results by an in vitro study. Further, we used the information from the in vitro study on real cases, to get an impression of the practical problem of degradation or formation of EtG. An in vitro study was carried out to study the concentrations of EtG in blood samples under controlled conditions during putrefaction. In addition, to illustrate the practical problem of degradation or formation of EtG, we used routine samples analysed for EtG in blood. Blood samples from forensic autopsies with ethanol detected but EtG not detected in blood, and therefore suspected post-mortem ethanol formation, were identified. Fifteen such cases had urine samples available, and these were analysed for EtG. We hypothesised that since concentrations are often higher in urine, there would still be traces of EtG left in this medium if post-mortem degradation was the reason for the negative result in blood. In this in vitro experiment, EtG was very unstable in blood samples at 30/40 degrees C without preservatives. On the other hand, EtG was stable with potassium fluoride at room temperature, and there was no formation of EtG either at 30 degrees C without preservatives, or at room temperature with potassium fluoride. Of the 15 routine cases where EtG in blood was negative, and the ethanol detected was assumed endogenous, six were positive for EtG in urine. In these cases, ethanol was probably ingested, and the negative EtG in blood may be a false negative result due to degradation during putrefaction. Analysis of EtG in blood is a helpful tool to determine in vivo ingestion of ethanol in post-mortem cases. A negative result, however, especially in heavily putrefied cases, must be interpreted with caution. Analysis of an additional medium would be valuable in these cases.
9042387	Two pyridinium metabolites of haloperidol are present in the brain of patients at post-mortem.	We have shown in patients taking the antipsychotic drug haloperidol (HP) that two pyridinium metabolites (HPP+ and RHPP+) are present in blood and urine in nM concentrations. These metabolites are structurally analogous to MPP+, the neurotoxic metabolite of the well-known parkinsonian-producing protoxin, MPTP. In this study we measured the concentrations of HPP+ and RHPP+ in seven regions of the brain (putamen, substantia nigra, globus pallidus, caudate, hippocampus, cerebellum and occipital cortex) obtained at post-mortem from three patients who were taking HP before death. Blood, urine, and bile from one patient were analysed as well. HPP+ was present in all regions (except for substantia nigra in one patient and globus pallidus in another); the amount/g ranged from 1.6-8.3 pMol but there was no preferential sequestration of the metabolite in dopaminergic regions. Similarly, RHPP+ was present relatively uniformly in all regions; the amount/g ranged from 1.1-7.6 pMol. The concentrations of HPP+ and RHPP+ in one patient were 24 and 13 nM in blood, 660 and 230 nM in urine, and 13.0 and 1.4 microM in bile, respectively. The presence of these pyridinums in brain adds another important piece of information to the case that, at least for HP, metabolite-induced neurotoxicity could contribute to the extrapyramidal side-effects in patients receiving long-term therapy.
21209239	Fostamatinib, a Syk-kinase inhibitor, does not affect methotrexate pharmacokinetics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	Fostamatinib (R788) is being investigated as an add-on therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in patients with inadequate response to methotrexate (MTX). This study evaluated the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between R788 and MTX. Sixteen RA subjects on a stable weekly MTX regimen were enrolled and received MTX on days 1 and 8. Twelve subjects received 100 mg of R788 orally, and 4 subjects received a matching placebo twice daily from days 4 to 8 and once daily on days 3 and 9. Blood samples were collected on days 1 and 8 for MTX and 7-hydroxymethotrexate (7-OH-MTX), and days 3 and 9 for R788 and its active metabolite, R406. MTX and 7-OH-MTX pharmacokinetic parameters were similar on days 1 and 8. In the R788 group, the mean day 8 to day 1 ratios (90% confidence intervals) of maximum concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve estimates were 1.01 (0.85-1.20) and 1.12 (0.90-1.40) for MTX and 1.06 (0.82-1.35) and 1.06 (0.83-1.36) for 7-OH-MTX, respectively. Urinary excretion of MTX and 7-OH-MTX was also similar with or without R788, averaging 58% to 69% and 4% to 5% of the MTX dose, respectively. The data suggest that there is no clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction of R788 and MTX in RA patients.
12642463	Inhibition and activation of the human liver microsomal and human cytochrome P450 3A4 metabolism of testosterone by deployment-related chemicals.	Cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes are major catalysts involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and endogenous substrates such as testosterone (TST). Major TST metabolites formed by human liver microsomes include 6beta-hydroxytestosterone (6beta-OHTST), 2beta-hydroxytestosterone (2beta-OHTST), and 15beta-hydroxytestosterone (15beta-OHTST). A screen of 16 cDNA-expressed human P450 isoforms demonstrated that 94% of all TST metabolites are produced by members of the CYP3A subfamily with 6beta-OHTST accounting for 86% of all TST metabolites. Similar K(m) values were observed for production of 6beta-, 2beta-, and 15beta-OHTST with human liver microsomes (HLM) and CYP3A4. However, V(max) and CL(int) were significantly higher for 6beta-OHTST than 2beta-OHTST (approximately 18-fold) and 15beta-OHTST (approximately 40-fold). Preincubation of HLM with a variety of ligands, including chemicals used in military deployments, resulted in varying levels of inhibition or activation of TST metabolism. The greatest inhibition of TST metabolism in HLM was following preincubation with organophosphorus compounds, including chlorpyrifos, phorate, and fonofos, with up to 80% inhibition noticed for several metabolites including 6beta-OHTST. Preincubation of CYP3A4 with chlorpyrifos, but not chlorpyrifos-oxon, resulted in 98% inhibition of TST metabolism. Phorate and fonofos also inhibited the production of most primary metabolites of CYP3A4. Kinetic analysis indicated that chlorpyrifos was one of the most potent inhibitors of major TST metabolites followed by fonofos and phorate. Chlorpyrifos, fonofos, and phorate inhibited major TST metabolites noncompetitively and irreversibly. Conversely, preincubation of CYP3A4 with pyridostigmine bromide increased metabolite levels of 6beta-OHTST and 2beta-OHTST. Preincubation of human aromatase (CYP19) with the test chemicals had no effect on the production of the endogenous estrogen, 17beta-estradiol.
19007520	Free oxycodone concentrations in 67 postmortem cases from the Hennepin County medical examiner's office.	Heart blood free oxycodone concentrations in oxycodone-related and mixed drug overdose deaths were compared with those found incidentally at autopsy in medical examiner cases. Between 2000 and 2005, 67 oxycodone-positive postmortem cases were identified. Thirty of 67 cases (44.8%) were determined to be drug overdoses. Oxycodone alone was responsible for 7 of the 30 (23.3%) overdose deaths. Mean (median) oxycodone concentrations were 1.060 mg/L (0.824 mg/L) with a range of 0.270-3.390 mg/L. Three cases were accidents, three were suicides, and one was undetermined. The remaining 23 were mixed drug overdoses. Mean (median) oxycodone concentrations in these cases were 0.820 mg/L (0.470 mg/L) with a range of 0.014-3.800 mg/L. Sixteen mixed drug overdoses were accidental, and seven were suicidal. Where oxycodone was an incidental finding, 24 were natural, 6 accident, 4 suicide, 1 homicide, and 2 undetermined. The mean (median) concentrations in the incidental finding group were 0.330 mg/L (0.150 mg/L) with a range of 0.017-1.300 mg/L. In conclusion, the findings substantiate the considerable overlap that exists with blood oxycodone concentrations in cases where oxycodone alone was determined to be the cause of death compared with mixed drug overdoses and incidental findings. Free oxycodone concentrations in postmortem cases must be interpreted in the context of the deceased's past medical history and autopsy findings.
21266595	Sorafenib and sunitinib, two anticancer drugs, inhibit CYP3A4-mediated and activate CY3A5-mediated midazolam 1'-hydroxylation.	Sorafenib and sunitinib are novel small-molecule molecularly targeted anticancer drugs that inhibit multiple tyrosine kinases. These medicines have shown survival benefits in advanced renal cell carcinomas as well as in advanced hepatocellular carcinomas and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, respectively. The effects of sorafenib and sunitinib on midazolam 1'-hydroxylation catalyzed by human CYP3A4 or CYP3A5 were investigated. Sorafenib and sunitinib inhibited metabolic reactions catalyzed by recombinant CYP3A4. Midazolam hydroxylation was also inhibited in human liver microsomes harboring the CYP3A5*3/*3 genotype (poor CYP3A5 expressor). In contrast, midazolam 1'-hydroxylation catalyzed by recombinant CYP3A5 was enhanced by the coexistence of sorafenib or sunitinib in a concentration-dependent manner, with saturation occurring at approximately 10 M. Midazolam hydroxylation was also enhanced in human liver microsomal samples harboring the CYP3A5*1/*1 genotype (extensive CYP3A5 expressor). Sorafenib N-oxidation and sunitinib N-deethylation, the primary routes of metabolism, were predominantly catalyzed by CYP3A4 but not by CYP3A5. The preincubation period of sorafenib and sunitinib before the midazolam addition in the reaction mixture did not affect the enhancement of CYP3A5-catalyzed midazolam hydroxylation, indicating that the enhancement was caused by parent sorafenib and sunitinib. Docking studies with a CYP3A5 homology model based on the structure of CYP3A4 revealed that midazolam closely docked to the heme of CYP3A5 compared with sorafenib or sunitinib, suggesting that these anticancer drugs act as enhancers, not as substrates. Our results thus showed that sorafenib and sunitinib activated midazolam 1'-hydroxylation by CYP3A5 but inhibited that by CYP3A4. Unexpected drug interactions involving sorafenib and sunitinib might occur via heterotropic cooperativity of CYP3A5.
9200533	Bioanalysis of captopril: two sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic methods with pre- or postcolumn fluorescent labeling.	This study describes the development and comparison of two HPLC methods for the analysis of the antihypertensive drug captopril. The first method is based on a precolumn derivatization of captopril with the fluorescent label monobromobimane (MBB). The second method is based on a postcolumn reaction with the fluorescent reagent o-phthaldialdehyde (OPA). Since the disulfide metabolites of captopril can be reconverted to the active drug in vivo, the bioanalysis of captopril should involve both the determination of its free thiol form (free captopril) and the total amount of free thiol and reducible disulfides (total captopril). For total captopril analysis, disulfides were reduced with tributylphosphine (TBP) prior to protein precipitation. Since the reducing agent interfered with the MBB derivatization reaction, this method was not suitable for total captopril analysis. Both methods were validated for the bioanalysis of free captopril in human plasma. After removal of plasma proteins, samples were analyzed without an additional extraction procedure. The limit of quantitation in plasma was 12.5 ng/ml for the MBB method (limit of detection 30 pg) and 25 ng/ml for the OPA method (limit of detection 50 pg). The OPA method was also validated for total captopril analysis in human plasma and urine. The limit of quantitation was 25 ng/ml in plasma and 250 ng/ml in urine (limit of detection 50 pg). We conclude that for the analysis of free captopril the precolumn MBB method is superior to the OPA method since only the derivatization reaction has to be carried out immediately. The postcolumn OPA method is especially suitable for the analysis of total captopril since reducing reagents and high concentrations of endogenous thiols do not interfere with the derivatization reaction.
2079509	Analysis of phenprocoumon and its hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites in human urine by high-performance liquid chromatography after solid-phase extraction.	The anticoagulant phenprocoumon is mainly metabolized in humans to hydroxylated metabolites and their glucuronides. A method is described for the determination of phenprocoumon, 4'-hydroxyphenprocoumon, 6-hydroxyphenprocoumon, 7-hydroxyphenprocoumon, and their glucuronide and sulphate conjugates in human urine. Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography is performed after selective extraction with disposable quaternary amine columns of untreated, and beta-glucuronidase- or sulphatase-treated urine samples. Urinary excretion data are presented for total, glucuronidated, sulphated and free phenprocoumon, 4'-hydroxyphenprocoumon, 6-hydroxyphenprocoumon and 7-hydroxyphenprocoumon in twelve patients after an average daily dosage of 1.3-4.2 mg phenprocoumon.
8541232	Specificity of glucuronosyltransferase activity in the human cancer cell line LNCaP, evidence for the presence of at least two glucuronosyltransferase enzymes.	Recent findings obtained by our group showed that incubation of LNCaP cells with labeled steroids leads to the formation of 3- and 17-hydroxysteroid glucuronides. In this study, the specificity and the kinetic properties of 3-hydroxy-C19steroid uridine diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (3-OH-UGT) and 17-hydroxy-C19steroid UGT (17-OH-UGT) activities in LNCaP cells were investigated. Results indicate that the UGT has a high affinity for testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), androsterone (ADT) and androstane-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol (3 alpha-DIOL), with Km values ranging from 0.25 to 0.68 microM. The Km values are approx. 10-fold higher for androst-5-ene-3 beta,17 beta-diol (5-ene-DIOL) and androstane-3 beta,17 beta-diol (3 beta-DIOL). The relative specificities (Vmax/Km) also showed higher turnover rates for testosterone, DHT, ADT and 3 alpha-DIOL with values ranging from 2.93 to 5.71, than for 3 beta-DIOL and 5-ene-DIOL with ratios of 0.41 and 1.10, respectively. Dixon plot and Cornish-Bowden analysis demonstrate that testosterone, DHT, ADT, and 3 alpha-DIOL inhibit the glucuronidation of DHT and ADT in a competitive fashion. In contrast, when the studies are performed with 3 beta-diol and 5-ene-DIOL the inhibition of ADT glucuronidation is uncompetitive while the glucuronidation of DHT is inhibited competitively, suggesting the presence of two UGT enzymes, one for glucuronidation of the 17 beta-OH group and a second for the 3 alpha-OH group. Further evidence for the presence of two UGTs in LNCaP cells was obtained by incubation with a variety of 3 beta-OH-C19 steroids which caused a marked inhibition of DHT-G formation but had no effect on the glucuronidation of ADT. In summary, our data demonstrate the presence of at least two UGTs in the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP. The relative specificity of the 17-OH-UGT in LNCaP cells is 3 alpha-DIOL > DHT > testosterone, while ADT is glucuronidated by the 3-OH-UGT.
11710587	Quantitation of promethazine and metabolites in urine samples using on-line solid-phase extraction and column-switching.	A chromatographic method for the quantitation of promethazine (PMZ) and its three metabolites in urine employing on-line solid-phase extraction and column-switching has been developed. The column-switching system described here uses an extraction column for the purification of PMZ and its metabolites from a urine matrix. The extraneous matrix interference was removed by flushing the extraction column with a gradient elution. The analytes of interest were then eluted onto an analytical column for further chromatographic separation using a mobile phase of greater solvent strength. This method is specific and sensitive with a range of 3.75-1400 ng/ml for PMZ and 2.5-1400 ng/ml for the metabolites promethazine sulfoxide, monodesmethyl promethazine sulfoxide and monodesmethyl promethazine. The lower limits of quantitation (LLOQ) were 3.75 ng/ml with less than 6.2% C.V. for PMZ and 2.50 ng/ml with less than 11.5% C.V. for metabolites based on a signal-to-noise ratio of 10:1 or greater. The accuracy and precision were within +/- 11.8% in bias and not greater than 5.5% C.V. in intra- and inter-assay precision for PMZ and metabolites. Method robustness was investigated using a Plackett-Burman experimental design. The applicability of the analytical method for pharmacokinetic studies in humans is illustrated.
21819789	Determination of tapentadol (Nucynta) and N-desmethyltapentadol in authentic urine specimens by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Urine specimens from pain management patients dosed with Nucynta (Tapentadol) were confirmed for the presence of tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to minimize sample preparation and urine volume requirements. The linearity of the method for both tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol demonstrated correlation coefficients (R) above 0.99 and linear ranges from 50 to 500,000 ng/mL for tapentadol and 100 to 500,000 ng/mL for N-desmethyltapentadol. The intraday precision of the assay for both analytes ranged from 2.2 to 6.9% over three concentrations; the interday precision for both analytes ranged from 1.2 to 8.4%. The limits of quantitation were 50 and 100 ng/mL for tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol, respectively, and the upper limit of linearity for both analytes was determined to be 500,000 ng/mL. Urine samples were collected within 24 h of dosing with tapentadol and shipped overnight to the laboratory. Samples were hydrolyzed with acid prior to analysis to measure total (unconjugated and conjugated) tapentadol and N-desmethyltapentadol. Further investigation into characterization of metabolites was performed by using a hybrid quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometer in lieu of suitable analytical reference standards. The presence of significant N-desmethyltapentadol glucuronide was demonstrated for the first time.
17170228	Aromatase activity of human mesenchymal stem cells is stimulated by early differentiation, vitamin D and leptin.	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are multipotent cells present in bone marrow, which differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes, among other lineages. Oestrogens play a critical role in bone metabolism; its action may affect the adipocyte to osteoblast ratio in the bone marrow. In hMSCs, oestrogens are synthesized from C19 steroids by the enzyme aromatase cytochrome P450. In this study, we assessed whether aromatase enzymatic activity varied through early osteogenic (OS) and adipogenic (AD) differentiation. Also, we studied the effect of leptin and 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) on aromatase cell activity. Finally, we analysed whether conditions that modify oestrogen generation by cells affected hMSCs differentiation. For these purposes, hMSCs derived from post-menopausal women (65-86 years old) were cultured under basal, OS or AD conditions, in the presence or the absence of leptin and 1,25(OH)2D3. Aromatase activity was measured by the tritiated water release assay and by direct measurement of steroids synthesized from 3H-labelled androstenedione or testosterone. Our results showed that different OS and AD patterns of aromatase activity developed during the first period of differentiation (up to 7 days). A massive and sharp surge of aromatase activity at 24 h characterized early OS differentiation, while increased but constant aromatase activity was increased through adipogenesis. Both leptin and vitamin D increased aromatase activity during osteogenesis, but not during adipogenesis; finally, we showed that favourable aromatase substrates concentration restrained MSCs adipogenesis but improved osteogenesis. Thus, it could be inferred that a high and early increase of local oestrogen concentration in hMSCs affects their commitment either restraining AD or facilitating OS differentiation, or both.
12469331	Dose dependent pharmacokinetics of albendazole in human.	Pharmacokinetics of albendazole sulphoxide (ABZ-SO) in three different single oral doses of albendazole (ABZ) (400, 800 and 1200 mg) was studied in 10 healthy human volunteers in a double blind three-way crossover design. The serum levels of albendazole main metabolite, albendazole sulphoxide (ABZ-SO), were analysed by a modified high-pressure liquid chromatography method. (ABZ is not detectable in biological fluids itself.)For ABZ-SO, there was no significant difference in the biological half life, normalized serum peak concentration (C(max-ABZ-SO)/Dose(ABZ)), time to reach peak concentration (T(max)) and mean residence time (MRT), whereas apparent clearance (Cl(p)/F), apparent distribution volume (V(d)/F), normalized area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC(ABZ-SO)/Dose(ABZ)) and normalized area under the first moment curve (AUMC(ABZ-SO)/Dose(ABZ)) of albendazole main metabolite (ABZ-SO) were statistically different at different doses of the parent drug, resulting in substantially lower serum concentration and thereafter AUC(ABZ-SO)/Dose(ABZ) and AUMC(ABZ-SO)/Dose(ABZ) in higher doses. These observations indicate dose dependent pharmacokinetics of albendazole (observed for ABZ-SO), which were explained on the basis of a change in fraction of dose absorbed (F) as a result of slow and incomplete dissolution of the main drug in the GI tract.
8548021	High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of irinotecan (CPT-11) and its active metabolite (SN-38) in human plasma.	A simplified method for the simultaneous determination of irinotecan (CPT-11, I) and its active metabolite (SN-38, II) in human plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection has been developed. Following the addition of the internal standard (I.S.) camptothecin, the drugs were extracted from plasma using methanol. The average extraction efficiencies were 87% for I, 90% for II and 90% for the I.S. Chromatography was performed using a TSK gel ODS-80Ts column, monitored at 556 nm (excitation wavelength, 380 nm) and the mobile phase was acetonitrile-50 mM disodium hydrogen phosphate (28:72) containing 5 mM heptanesulphonate (pH 3.0). The linear quantitation ranges for I and II were 30-2000 and 1-30 ng/ml, respectively.
21330091	Simultaneous analysis of frequently used licit and illicit psychoactive drugs in breast milk by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	A liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method for the quantification of frequently used licit (caffeine, nicotine and cotinine) and illicit drugs (opiates, cocaine, cannabinoids and amphetamines) in breast milk was developed and fully validated. Chromatography was performed on a reverse-phase column using a gradient of 2mM ammonium acetate, pH 6.6, and methyl alcohol as mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.35 mL/min. Separated analytes were quantified by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry in positive ion mode using multiple reaction monitoring. Milk samples were kept at -20 C until analysis and the compounds under investigation were extracted from the matrix by Bond Elut Certify cartridges. The concentration range covered was LOQ to 1000 ng/mL for all the investigated drugs. Intra- and inter-assay imprecision was less than 20%, analytical recovery ranged between 51.6% and 86.5%, matrix effect between 71.1% and 116.6% and process efficiency between 46.8% and 84.0%. Analytes were stable after three freeze-thaw cycles, after 6 months at -20 C and after the pasteurization process (differences to the initial concentration always lower than 10%). matrix effect ranged from 77.6% to 116.6%, recovery from 51.6% to 86.5%, and process efficiency from 46.8% to 79.0%. This LC-MS-MS assay was applied to screen samples from the largest Spanish milk bank and samples coming from drug addicted mothers. The developed method provided adequate sensitivity and performance characteristics to prove the presence of only caffeine in a small percentage of samples from milk donating nursing mothers and the presence or absence of most commonly used illicit drugs in breast milk from addicted lactating mothers.
12908946	Foxy, a designer tryptamine hallucinogen.	Foxy is slang for 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine. It has hallucinogenic properties, similar to other tryptamine compounds, and is mildly euphoric. This case report describes a 21-year-old Caucasian man who ingested a pill called Foxy containing an unknown amount of drug. He was observed in hospital for 2 h, during which time he had mild hallucinations and could not move his limbs. A urine sample was collected approximately 4 h after drug ingestion. The patient was then discharged with no follow up assessment. The 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine was identified in the urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Standards prepared from the pure material were used in the identification. Quantitative analysis using the same analytical technique resulted in a urinary concentration of 1.7 micro g/mL. Through oxidative deamination, the metabolite, 5-methoxy-indole acetic acid, was formed. It was identified in the urine, and the concentration was determined to be 1.3 micro g/mL using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Two other compounds were discovered in the urine sample as a result of a routine drug screen. From their mass spectra, they were tentatively identified as 5-methoxy-N-isopropyltryptamine and 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyltryptamine-N'-oxide.
1441595	Stereoselective inhibition of nortriptyline hydroxylation in man by quinidine.	1. Four volunteers phenotyped as extensive metabolizers of sparteine took 25 mg nortriptyline hydrochloride and collected urine for 72-80 h. Total free and conjugated 10-hydroxynortriptyline (10-OH-NT) accounted for 54-58% of the dose and it was reduced to 25-40% when 50 mg quinidine sulphate was ingested on the first and second day. 2. Of the four isomers of 10-OH-NT, (-)-E-10-OH-NT was selectively decreased in quantity by quinidine coadministration, while the (+)-isomer and (-)- and (+)-Z-10-OH-NT were found in unchanged or slightly increased quantities. The contribution of (-)-E-10-OH-NT to total E-10-OH-NT and the E-/Z-ratio in total 10-OH-NT were significantly reduced. 3. The quantity of the phenol, 2-hydroxynortriptyline in urine was decreased by quinidine; the relative amounts of metabolites with a primary amino group were not affected. 4. Liver microsomes from a donor in which cytochrome P450IID6 was shown to be present by in vitro phenotyping metabolized NT to E-10-OH-NT containing 86% of the (-)-isomer. Quinidine reduced the hydroxylation rate in (-)-E-10-position much more than that in (+)-E-10-position. 5. Since quinidine selectively impairs the function of cytochrome P450IID6, it is concluded that this isoform catalyses NT hydroxylation predominantly in (-)-E-10- and in 2-position.
21129868	Detection of phentermine in hair samples from drug suspects.	Phentermine (PT) has been widely used as an anti-obesity drug. This drug has to be used with caution due to its close resemblance with amphetamines in its structure and toxicity profile. Recently, PT is in distribution by illegal modes and is found to be available through sources such as the internet, thus their misuse and/or abuse is threatening to be a serious social issue. In the present study, 32 cases of drug suspects were observed for PT abuse, detected using hair samples for drug analysis. PT and other amphetamines, such as methamphetamine (MA), amphetamine (AP), 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDMA) and 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), were extracted using 1% HCl in methanol for 20 h at 38C. The extracts were derivatized with trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA) and analyzed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Among the 32 cases of PT abuse, MA and its main metabolite, AP were identified in seven cases and MDMA and its main metabolite, MDA were detected in two other cases.
18970848	Analysis of enantiomers in biological matrices by charged cyclodextrin-mediated capillary zone electrophoresis in column-coupling arrangement with capillary isotachophoresis.	The possibility to apply charged chiral selector as buffer additive in capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) on-line coupled with capillary isotachophoresis (CITP) was studied. Enantioseparations and determinations of trace (ng/ml) antihistaminic drugs [pheniramine (PHM), dimethindene (DIM), dioxopromethazine (DIO)] present in samples of complex ionic matrices (urine) served as model examples. A negatively charged carboxyethyl-beta-cyclodextrin (CE-beta-CD) was used as a chiral selector in analytical CZE stage following upon a sample pretreatment by CITP (preconcentration of the analytes from 5 to 20-times diluted urine samples, partial sample clean up removing macroconstituents from the sample matrices). A high recognition capability of the oppositely charged CE-beta-CD was demonstrated by enantioselective retardation of the drugs in presence of micro-and semi-macroconstituents migrating in CZE stage and detectable by UV detector. In this way, enantiomers of the drugs could be easily separated and determined. Due to lack of interferences between the drugs and sample-matrix constituents in presence of charged CE-beta-CD, demands on both spacers in CITP step and multiple column-switching were minimized. CITP-CZE method with charged selector appeared to be a useful analytical approach for the trace enantiomers in complex ionic matrices as it combined enhanced separation selectivity and sample loadabitlity with high separation efficiency and provided favorable performance parameters including sensitivity, linearity, precision, accuracy/recovery and robustness with minimal demands on sample preparation. Analysis of urine sample taken from a patient treated by PHM, showing concentration profile of PHM enantiomers and their metabolites, illustrated potentialities of the method in clinical research.
16806627	Estimation of ochratoxin A in portuguese population: new data on the occurrence in human urine by high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection.	With increasing knowledge of the persistence of OTA in the food chain, exposure to this mycotoxin is a potential human health hazard to humans, and evaluating its presence in populations has become highly important. A sensitive and accurate analytical method for the determination of ochratoxin A in urine was validated, since is less invasive than blood monitoring. It involves extraction with 5% NaHCO3, immunoaffinity column (IAC) for clean-up and high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FD). The limit of quantification was 0.02 ng/mL of urine (1.3 ng/mL of the extract injected) and recovery of ochratoxin A from urine samples spiked at the three fortification levels, were higher than 90% with RSD lower than 9%. The identification of OTA was confirmed by methyl ester derivatization and then HPLC analysis. Based in ours first results we can assume that OTA conjugation with glucuronic acid in human urine occurs. In the present study, we follow up OTA levels in 60 urine samples of inhabitants from Coimbra city, Portugal, in order to evaluate population contamination, and the presence of OTA was found in 42 samples, at concentrations above the LOQ, ranged between 0.021 and 0.105 ng/mL.
